# unfoldingWord Literal

## License Information

**unfoldingWord Literal** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Literal Text_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Leviticus 1:1 (id: 903001001)

1And Yahweh called to Moses, and he spoke to him from the tent of meeting, saying,


## Leviticus 1:2 (id: 903001002)

2“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, ‘A man from you, when he presents an offering to Yahweh from the livestock— from the cattle or from the flock— you shall present your offering.


## Leviticus 1:3 (id: 903001003)

3If his offering {is} a burnt offering from the cattle, he shall present it, a perfect male. At the entrance of the tent of meeting he shall present it for its acceptance to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 1:4 (id: 903001004)

4And he shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering. And it shall be accepted for him in order to make atonement for him.


## Leviticus 1:5 (id: 903001005)

5And he shall slaughter the son of the cattle to the face of Yahweh. And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall present the blood, and they shall splash the blood all around on the altar that {is at} the entrance of the tent of meeting.


## Leviticus 1:6 (id: 903001006)

6And he shall skin the burnt offering and he shall cut it into its pieces.


## Leviticus 1:7 (id: 903001007)

7And the sons of Aaron the priest shall give fire on the altar, and they shall arrange wood on the fire.


## Leviticus 1:8 (id: 903001008)

8And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall arrange the pieces, the head, and the suet on the wood that {is} on the fire that {is} on the altar.


## Leviticus 1:9 (id: 903001009)

9And he shall wash its innards and its legs with water. And the priest shall cause everything to become smoke on the altar, a burnt offering, a gift of a pleasing smell to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 1:10 (id: 903001010)

10And if his offering from the flock— from the lambs or from the goats— {is} for a burnt offering, he shall present a perfect male.


## Leviticus 1:11 (id: 903001011)

11And he shall slaughter it on the side of the altar northward to the face of Yahweh. And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall splash its blood on the altar all around.


## Leviticus 1:12 (id: 903001012)

12And he shall cut it into its pieces and its head and its suet. And the priest shall arrange them on the wood that {is} on the fire that {is} on the altar.


## Leviticus 1:13 (id: 903001013)

13And the innards and the legs he shall wash with water. And the priest shall present everything, and he shall cause {them} to become smoke on the altar. It {is} a burnt offering, a gift of a pleasing smell to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 1:14 (id: 903001014)

14And if his offering to Yahweh from the birds {is} a burnt offering, then he shall present his offering from the turtledoves or from the sons of the pigeon.


## Leviticus 1:15 (id: 903001015)

15And the priest shall present it at the altar, and he shall twist off its head and he shall cause {it} to become smoke on the altar. And its blood shall be drained on the side of the altar.


## Leviticus 1:16 (id: 903001016)

16And he shall remove its craw with its feathers and he shall cast it beside the altar eastward to the place of the fatty ashes.


## Leviticus 1:17 (id: 903001017)

17And he shall tear it open by its wings; he shall not divide {it}. And the priest shall cause it to become smoke on the altar, on the wood that {is} on the fire. It {is} a burnt offering, a gift of a pleasing smell to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 2:1 (id: 903002001)

1And a person, when he presents an offering of a grain offering to Yahweh, his offering shall be flour. And he shall pour oil on it and he shall give incense to it.


## Leviticus 2:2 (id: 903002002)

2And he shall bring it to the sons of Aaron, the priests, and he shall grab from there, {with} the fullness of his handful, some of its flour and some of its oil, in addition to all its incense. And the priest shall cause its memorial portion to become smoke on the altar, a gift, a pleasing smell to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 2:3 (id: 903002003)

3And the remainder from the grain offering {shall be} for Aaron and for his sons, a holy thing of holy things from the gifts of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 2:4 (id: 903002004)

4And when you present an offering of a grain offering, a baked item of the oven, flour of loaves of unleavened bread {shall be} mixed with oil or wafers of unleavened bread {shall be} anointed with oil.


## Leviticus 2:5 (id: 903002005)

5And if your offering {is} a grain offering on the griddle, flour shall be mixed with oil {into} unleavened bread.


## Leviticus 2:6 (id: 903002006)

6Piece it {into} pieces, and you shall pour oil on it. It {is} a grain offering.


## Leviticus 2:7 (id: 903002007)

7And if your offering is a grain offering of a pan, flour shall be made with oil.


## Leviticus 2:8 (id: 903002008)

8And you shall bring the grain offering that is made from these to Yahweh. And he shall present it to the priest and he shall bring it near to the altar.


## Leviticus 2:9 (id: 903002009)

9And the priest shall take up from the grain offering its memorial portion, and he shall cause {it} to become smoke on the altar, a gift, a pleasing smell to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 2:10 (id: 903002010)

10And the remainder from the grain offering {shall be} for Aaron and for his sons, a holy thing of holy things from the gifts of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 2:11 (id: 903002011)

11Any grain offering that you present to Yahweh shall not be made {with} leaven; for any leaven culture or any honey you shall not cause to become smoke from it, a gift to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 2:12 (id: 903002012)

12You shall present them to Yahweh {as} an offering of first {things}, but on the altar, they shall not go up as a pleasing smell.


## Leviticus 2:13 (id: 903002013)

13And every offering of your grain offerings you shall salt with salt. And you shall not omit the salt of the covenant of your God from on your grain offering. On all your offerings you shall present salt.


## Leviticus 2:14 (id: 903002014)

14And if you present a grain offering of first ripe grains to Yahweh, a tender ear roasted with fire, crushed grain of a ripe ear, you shall present a grain offering of your first ripe grains.


## Leviticus 2:15 (id: 903002015)

15And you shall give oil on it and you shall place incense on it. It {is} a grain offering.


## Leviticus 2:16 (id: 903002016)

16And the priest shall cause its memorial portion, from its crushed grains and from its oil with all its incense, to become smoke, a gift to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 3:1 (id: 903003001)

1And if his offering {is} a sacrifice of peace offerings, if he is presenting from the cattle, whether male or female, perfect, he shall present it to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 3:2 (id: 903003002)

2And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and he shall slaughter it {at} the entrance of the tent of meeting. And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall splash the blood on the altar all around.


## Leviticus 3:3 (id: 903003003)

3And from the sacrifice of the peace offerings he shall present a gift to Yahweh: the fat covering the innards and all the fat that {is} on the innards


## Leviticus 3:4 (id: 903003004)

4and the two kidneys and the fat that {is} on them that {is} near the loins and the lobe on the liver (he shall remove it with the kidneys).


## Leviticus 3:5 (id: 903003005)

5And the sons of Aaron shall cause it to become smoke on the altar with the burnt offering that {is} on the wood that {is} on the fire, a gift, a pleasant smell to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 3:6 (id: 903003006)

6And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace offerings to Yahweh {is} from the flock, male or female, perfect, he shall present it.


## Leviticus 3:7 (id: 903003007)

7If he is presenting his offering, a lamb, then he shall present it to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 3:8 (id: 903003008)

8And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and he shall slaughter it to the face of the tent of meeting. And the sons of Aaron shall splash its blood on the altar all around.


## Leviticus 3:9 (id: 903003009)

9And from the sacrifice of the peace offerings he shall present a gift to Yahweh: its fat, the entire fatty tail (he shall remove it near the backbone) and the fat covering the innards and all the fat that {is} on the innards


## Leviticus 3:10 (id: 903003010)

10and the two kidneys and the fat that {is} on them that {is} by the loins and the lobe on the liver (he shall remove it with the kidneys).


## Leviticus 3:11 (id: 903003011)

11And the priest shall cause it to become smoke on the altar, a food gift to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 3:12 (id: 903003012)

12And if his offering {is} a goat, then he shall present it to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 3:13 (id: 903003013)

13And he shall lay his hand on its head and he shall slaughter it to the face of the tent of meeting. And the sons of Aaron shall splash its blood on the altar all around.


## Leviticus 3:14 (id: 903003014)

14And from it, he shall present his offering, a gift to Yahweh: the fat covering the innards and all the fat that {is} on the innards,


## Leviticus 3:15 (id: 903003015)

15and the two kidneys and the fat that {is} on them that {is} by the loins and the lobe on the liver (he shall remove it with the kidneys).


## Leviticus 3:16 (id: 903003016)

16And the priest shall cause them to become smoke on the altar, a food gift, a pleasant smell. All the fat {is} for Yahweh.


## Leviticus 3:17 (id: 903003017)

17An enduring statute for your generations in all your dwelling places: you shall not eat any fat or any blood.’”


## Leviticus 4:1 (id: 903004001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 4:2 (id: 903004002)

2“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘A person, when he sins by mistake from any of the commands of Yahweh that shall not be done, and he does from one from them,


## Leviticus 4:3 (id: 903004003)

3if the anointed priest sins to the guilt of the people, then he shall present for his sin that he sinned a bull, a perfect son of the cattle, to Yahweh as a sin offering.


## Leviticus 4:4 (id: 903004004)

4And he shall bring the bull to the entrance of the tent of meeting to the face of Yahweh. And he shall lay his hand on the head of the bull and he shall slaughter the bull to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 4:5 (id: 903004005)

5And the anointed priest shall take some of the blood of the bull, and he shall bring it to the tent of meeting.


## Leviticus 4:6 (id: 903004006)

6And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and he shall sprinkle some of the blood seven times to the face of Yahweh, toward the face of the curtain of the holy {place}.


## Leviticus 4:7 (id: 903004007)

7And the priest shall give some of the blood on the horns of the altar of incense of the spices to the face of Yahweh, which {is} in the tent of meeting. And all the blood of the bull he shall pour out at the base of the altar of the burnt offering, which {is at} the entrance of the tent of meeting.


## Leviticus 4:8 (id: 903004008)

8And all the fat of the bull of the sin offering he shall lift up from it: the fat covering over the innards and all the fat that {is} on the innards


## Leviticus 4:9 (id: 903004009)

9and the two kidneys and the fat that is on them that is near the loins and the lobe on the liver (he shall remove it with the kidneys)


## Leviticus 4:10 (id: 903004010)

10just as it is lifted up from the ox of the sacrifice of the peace offering. And the priest shall cause them to become smoke on the altar of the burnt offering.


## Leviticus 4:11 (id: 903004011)

11And the skin of the bull and all its meat, with its head and with its legs and its innards and its dung


## Leviticus 4:12 (id: 903004012)

12— and he shall bring out all of the bull to {a place} on the outside of the camp, to a clean place, to the pouring out place of the fatty ash. And he shall burn it on wood on the fire; on the pouring out place of the fatty ash, it shall be burned.


## Leviticus 4:13 (id: 903004013)

13And if the whole congregation of Israel mistakenly errs, and the matter is hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they do one {thing} from all the commands of Yahweh, which shall not be done, and they become guilty,


## Leviticus 4:14 (id: 903004014)

14and the sin that they sinned concerning it becomes known, then the assembly shall present a bull, a son of the cattle, for a sin offering. And they shall bring it to the face of the tent of meeting.


## Leviticus 4:15 (id: 903004015)

15And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands on the head of the bull to the face of Yahweh. And he shall slaughter the bull to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 4:16 (id: 903004016)

16And the anointed priest shall bring some of the blood of the bull to the tent of meeting.


## Leviticus 4:17 (id: 903004017)

17And the priest shall dip his finger from the blood, and he shall sprinkle {it} seven times to the face of Yahweh, toward the face of the curtain.


## Leviticus 4:18 (id: 903004018)

18And he shall give some of the blood on the horns of the altar that {is} to the face of Yahweh, which {is} in the tent of meeting. And all the blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar of the burnt offering, which {is at} the entrance of the tent of meeting.


## Leviticus 4:19 (id: 903004019)

19And all of its fat he shall lift up from it and he shall cause {it} to become smoke on the altar.


## Leviticus 4:20 (id: 903004020)

20And he shall do with the bull just as he did with the bull of the sin offering; thus he shall do with it. And the priest shall make atonement for them, and it will be forgiven to them.


## Leviticus 4:21 (id: 903004021)

21And he shall bring out the bull to {a place} on the outside of the camp and he shall burn it just as he burned the first bull. It {is} the sin offering of the assembly.


## Leviticus 4:22 (id: 903004022)

22When a leader sins and does by mistake one {thing} from all the commands of Yahweh his God, which shall not be done, and he becomes guilty,


## Leviticus 4:23 (id: 903004023)

23or his sin that he sinned with it is made known to him, then he shall bring his offering, a buck of the goats, a perfect male.


## Leviticus 4:24 (id: 903004024)

24And he shall lay his hand on the head of the buck and he shall slaughter it in the place where he slaughters the burnt offering to the face of Yahweh. It {is} a sin offering.


## Leviticus 4:25 (id: 903004025)

25And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and he shall give {it} on the horns of the altar of the burnt offering. And its blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar of the burnt offering.


## Leviticus 4:26 (id: 903004026)

26And all of its fat he shall cause to become smoke on the altar, like the fat of the sacrifice of the peace offerings. And the priest shall make atonement for him from his sin, and it will be forgiven to him.


## Leviticus 4:27 (id: 903004027)

27And if one person from the people of the land sins by mistake by doing it, one {thing} from the commands of Yahweh, which shall not be done, and he becomes guilty,


## Leviticus 4:28 (id: 903004028)

28or his sin that he sinned is made known to him, then he shall bring his offering, a doe of the goats, a perfect female, for his sin that he sinned.


## Leviticus 4:29 (id: 903004029)

29And he shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and he shall slaughter the sin offering in the place of the burnt offering.


## Leviticus 4:30 (id: 903004030)

30And the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger, and he shall give {it} on the horns of the altar of the burnt offering. And all its blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar.


## Leviticus 4:31 (id: 903004031)

31And all its fat he shall remove, just as the fat is removed from on the sacrifice of the peace offerings. And the priest shall cause {it} to become smoke on the altar as a pleasant smell to Yahweh. And the priest shall make atonement for him, and it will be forgiven to him.


## Leviticus 4:32 (id: 903004032)

32And if he brings a lamb {as} his offering for a sin offering, he shall bring it, a perfect female.


## Leviticus 4:33 (id: 903004033)

33And he shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and he shall slaughter it as a sin offering in the place where he slaughters the burnt offering.


## Leviticus 4:34 (id: 903004034)

34And the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and he shall give {it} on the horns of the altar of the burnt offering. And all its blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar.


## Leviticus 4:35 (id: 903004035)

35And all of its fat he shall remove, just as the fat of the lamb is removed from the sacrifice of the peace offerings. And the priest shall cause them to become smoke on the altar on the gifts of Yahweh. And the priest will make atonement for him for his sin that he sinned, and it will be forgiven to him.


## Leviticus 5:1 (id: 903005001)

1And a person, when he sins and he hears the sound of a curse and he {is} a witness (whether he saw or he knew), if he does not declare {it}, then he shall bear his iniquity.


## Leviticus 5:2 (id: 903005002)

2Or a person, when he touches any unclean thing, whether the unclean carcass of an animal or the unclean carcass of livestock or the carcass of an unclean creeping animal, and it is hidden from him, then he {is} unclean and he becomes guilty.


## Leviticus 5:3 (id: 903005003)

3Or when he touches the uncleanness of a man with regard to all of his uncleanness that he becomes unclean with it, and it is hidden from him, but he himself knows, then he becomes guilty.


## Leviticus 5:4 (id: 903005004)

4Or a person, when he swears {an oath} by speaking thoughtlessly with two lips to do evil or to do good, with regard to everything that the man thoughtlessly speaks in an oath, and it is hidden from him, but he himself knows, then he becomes guilty with regard to one from these {things}.


## Leviticus 5:5 (id: 903005005)

5And it shall be, when he becomes guilty with regard to one from these {things}, then he shall confess that he sinned regarding it.


## Leviticus 5:6 (id: 903005006)

6And he shall bring his guilt to Yahweh for his sin that he sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or a doe of the goats, for a sin offering. And the priest shall make atonement for him from his sin.


## Leviticus 5:7 (id: 903005007)

7But if his hand does not touch enough flock animals, then he shall bring his guilt that he sinned two turtledoves or two sons of a pigeon to Yahweh, one for a sin offering and one for a burnt offering.


## Leviticus 5:8 (id: 903005008)

8And he shall bring them to the priest and he shall present that which {is} for the sin offering first. And he shall twist off its head from the back of its neck, but he shall not divide {it}.


## Leviticus 5:9 (id: 903005009)

9And he shall sprinkle some of the blood of the sin offering on the side of the altar. And the remainder in the blood he shall squeeze out toward the base of the altar. It {is} a sin offering.


## Leviticus 5:10 (id: 903005010)

10And the second one he shall make a burnt offering, according to the regulation. And the priest shall make atonement for him from his sin that he sinned, and it will be forgiven to him.


## Leviticus 5:11 (id: 903005011)

11But if his hand does not reach two turtledoves or two sons of a pigeon, then he shall bring his offering that he sinned, a tenth of an ephah of flour for a sin offering. He shall not place oil on it and he shall not give incense on it, for it {is} a sin offering.


## Leviticus 5:12 (id: 903005012)

12And he shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall grab from it, {with} the fullness of his handful, its memorial portion. And he shall cause {it} to become smoke on the altar, on the gifts of Yahweh. It {is} a sin offering.


## Leviticus 5:13 (id: 903005013)

13And the priest shall make atonement for him, for his sin that he sinned from one of these, and it will be forgiven to him. And it shall be for the priest, like the grain offering.’”


## Leviticus 5:14 (id: 903005014)

14And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 5:15 (id: 903005015)

15“A person, when he trespasses a trespass and he sins by mistake from the holy {things} of Yahweh, then he shall bring his guilt to Yahweh, a perfect ram from the flock, in your valuation, silver shekels, in the shekel of the holy {place}, for a guilt offering.


## Leviticus 5:16 (id: 903005016)

16And that which he sinned from the holy {thing}, he shall restore and a fifth of it he shall add to it and he shall give it to the priest. And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering, and it will be forgiven to him.


## Leviticus 5:17 (id: 903005017)

17And if a person, when he sins and he does one {thing} from all the commands of Yahweh, which shall not be done, but he does not know, then he becomes guilty and he shall bear his iniquity.


## Leviticus 5:18 (id: 903005018)

18And he shall bring a perfect ram from the flock, in your valuation, to the priest for a guilt offering. And the priest shall make atonement for him for his mistake that he mistook (but he himself did not know), and it will be forgiven to him.


## Leviticus 5:19 (id: 903005019)

19It {is} a guilt offering; he is surely guilty to Yahweh.”


## Leviticus 6:1 (id: 903006001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 6:2 (id: 903006002)

2“A person, when he sins and he trespasses a trespass against Yahweh, and he denies his fellow citizen with a deposit or with a pledge of a hand, or with robbery, or he extorts his fellow citizen,


## Leviticus 6:3 (id: 903006003)

3or he finds lost property and he denies it or he swears on a lie regarding one {thing} from all that which humanity does to sin by them—


## Leviticus 6:4 (id: 903006004)

4then it shall be, when he sins and he becomes guilty, then he shall return the robbery that he robbed or the extortion that he extorted or the deposit that was deposited with him or the lost property that he found


## Leviticus 6:5 (id: 903006005)

5or from all that he swore concerning it to the lie, then he shall restore it in its head and he shall add the fifth of it to it. To whomever it {is} to him, he shall give it on the day of his guilt.


## Leviticus 6:6 (id: 903006006)

6And he shall bring his guilt to Yahweh, a perfect ram from the flock, in your valuation, for a guilt offering, to the priest.


## Leviticus 6:7 (id: 903006007)

7And the priest shall make atonement for him to the face of Yahweh, and it will be forgiven to him, concerning one {thing} from all that he does to {his} guilt with it.”


## Leviticus 6:8 (id: 903006008)

8And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 6:9 (id: 903006009)

9“Command Aaron and his sons, saying, ‘This {is} the instruction of the burnt offering: It {is} the burnt offering on the hearth, on the altar, all night until the morning. And the fire of the altar shall be made to burn on it.


## Leviticus 6:10 (id: 903006010)

10And the priest shall wear his linen robe, and the undergarments of linen he shall wear on his flesh. And he shall raise up the fatty ash, where the fire consumes the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put it beside the altar


## Leviticus 6:11 (id: 903006011)

11And he shall take off his clothes and shall will wear other clothes. And he shall take the fatty ash out to {a place} on the outside of the camp, to a clean place.


## Leviticus 6:12 (id: 903006012)

12But the fire on the altar shall be made to burn on it. It shall not go out, and the priest shall burn wood on it, in the morning, in the morning. And he shall arrange the burnt offering on it and he shall cause the fat of the peace offerings to become smoke on it.


## Leviticus 6:13 (id: 903006013)

13Fire shall be made to burn continually on the altar. It shall not go out.


## Leviticus 6:14 (id: 903006014)

14And this {is} the instruction of the grain offering: Present it, sons of Aaron, to the face of Yahweh, toward the face of the altar.


## Leviticus 6:15 (id: 903006015)

15And he shall raise up from it with his handful some of the flour of the grain offering and some of its oil and all of the incense that {is} on the grain offering. And he shall cause to become smoke {on} the altar, a pleasant smell, its memorial portion, to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 6:16 (id: 903006016)

16And the remainder from it Aaron and his sons shall eat. Unleavened bread, it shall be eaten in a holy place; in the courtyard of the tent of meeting, they shall eat it.


## Leviticus 6:17 (id: 903006017)

17It shall not be baked {with} leaven. Their portion, I have given it from my gifts. It {is} a holy thing of holy things, like the sin offering and like the guilt offering.


## Leviticus 6:18 (id: 903006018)

18Every male among the sons of Aaron will eat it, an enduring portion for your generations, from the gifts of Yahweh. Anything that touches them will be holy.’”


## Leviticus 6:19 (id: 903006019)

19And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 6:20 (id: 903006020)

20“This {is} the offering of Aaron and his sons, which they shall present to Yahweh on the day of his being anointed: a tenth of an ephah of flour, a continual grain offering, half of it in the morning and half of it in the evening.


## Leviticus 6:21 (id: 903006021)

21It shall be made on a griddle in oil. Mixed, you shall bring it; broken parts of a grain offering of pieces you shall present, a pleasant smell to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 6:22 (id: 903006022)

22And the anointed priest under him from his sons shall do it. An enduring statute: to Yahweh, a whole {offering} shall be made to become smoke.


## Leviticus 6:23 (id: 903006023)

23And every grain offering of the priest shall be a whole {offering}. It shall not be eaten.”


## Leviticus 6:24 (id: 903006024)

24And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 6:25 (id: 903006025)

25“Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, ‘This {is} the instruction of the sin offering: in the place where the burnt offering will be slaughtered, the sin offering shall be slaughtered to the face of Yahweh. It {is} a holy thing of holy things.


## Leviticus 6:26 (id: 903006026)

26The priest who presents it for a sin offering, he shall eat it. In a holy place, it shall be eaten, in the courtyard of the tent of meeting.


## Leviticus 6:27 (id: 903006027)

27Everything that touches its meat will be holy. And whoever sprinkles some of the blood on the clothing, wherever he sprinkles on it, you shall wash in a holy place.


## Leviticus 6:28 (id: 903006028)

28And a container of earthenware, which it is boiled in it, shall be shattered. But if it is boiled in a container of bronze, then it shall be scoured and it shall be rinsed with water.


## Leviticus 6:29 (id: 903006029)

29Every male among the priests will eat it. It {is} a holy thing of holy things.


## Leviticus 6:30 (id: 903006030)

30But every sin offering that some of its blood is brought into the tent of meeting to make atonement in the holy place, it shall not be eaten. It shall be burned with fire.


## Leviticus 7:1 (id: 903007001)

1And this {is} the law of the guilt offering. It {is} a holy thing of holy things.


## Leviticus 7:2 (id: 903007002)

2In the place where they will slaughter the burnt offering, they shall slaughter the guilt offering. And its blood he shall splash on the altar all around.


## Leviticus 7:3 (id: 903007003)

3And all its fat he shall present from it: the fatty tail and the fat covering the innards


## Leviticus 7:4 (id: 903007004)

4and the two kidneys and the fat that {is} on them that {is} by the loins and the lobe on the liver (he shall remove it with the kidneys).


## Leviticus 7:5 (id: 903007005)

5And the priest shall cause them to become smoke on the altar, a gift to Yahweh. It {is} a guilt offering.


## Leviticus 7:6 (id: 903007006)

6Every male among the priests will eat it. In a holy place, it shall be eaten. It {is} a holy thing of holy things.


## Leviticus 7:7 (id: 903007007)

7As the sin offering, so the guilt offering. The instruction is one for them. The priest who makes atonement with it, it shall be for him.


## Leviticus 7:8 (id: 903007008)

8And the priest, the one who presents a burnt offering of a man, the skin of the burnt offering that he presents {is} for the priest. It shall be for him.


## Leviticus 7:9 (id: 903007009)

9And every grain offering that is baked in an oven and everything made in a pan or on a griddle {is} for the priest who presents it. It shall be for him.


## Leviticus 7:10 (id: 903007010)

10And every grain offering, mixed with oil or dry, shall be for all the sons of Aaron, each one as his brother.


## Leviticus 7:11 (id: 903007011)

11And this {is} the instruction of the sacrifice of the peace offerings that he will present to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 7:12 (id: 903007012)

12If he will present it for thanksgiving, then he shall present with the sacrifice of thanksgiving loaves of unleavened bread mixed with oil or wafers of unleavened bread anointed with oil or mixed flour, loaves mixed with oil.


## Leviticus 7:13 (id: 903007013)

13With loaves of bread {with} leaven, he shall present his offering with the sacrifice of thanksgiving of his peace offerings.


## Leviticus 7:14 (id: 903007014)

14And he shall present from it one from each offering as a contribution to Yahweh. For the priest, the one splashing the blood of the peace offerings, it shall be for him.


## Leviticus 7:15 (id: 903007015)

15And the meat of the sacrifice of thanksgiving of his peace offerings shall be eaten on the day of his offering. He shall not leave some of it until morning.


## Leviticus 7:16 (id: 903007016)

16And if the sacrifice of his offering {is} a vow or a freewill offering, it shall be eaten on the day of his presenting his sacrifice. And from tomorrow, and the remainder from it shall be eaten.


## Leviticus 7:17 (id: 903007017)

17But the remainder from the meat of the sacrifice shall be burned with fire on the third day.


## Leviticus 7:18 (id: 903007018)

18And if some of the meat of the sacrifice of his peace offerings is ever eaten on the third day, the person who presented it will not be accepted; it will not be accounted to him. It will be defiled. And the person, the one eating from it, he shall carry his iniquity.


## Leviticus 7:19 (id: 903007019)

19And the meat that touches any unclean {thing} shall not be eaten. It shall be burned with fire. But the meat, any clean {person} will eat meat.


## Leviticus 7:20 (id: 903007020)

20And the person who eats meat from the sacrifice of the peace offerings that {are} for Yahweh, and his uncleanness {is} on him, then that person shall be cut off from his people.


## Leviticus 7:21 (id: 903007021)

21And a person, when he touches any unclean {thing}, the uncleanness of a man or an unclean livestock or any unclean detestable thing, and he eats some of the meat of a sacrifice of the peace offerings that {are} for Yahweh, that person shall be cut off from his people.’”


## Leviticus 7:22 (id: 903007022)

22And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 7:23 (id: 903007023)

23“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘You shall not eat any of the fat of an ox or a sheep or a goat.


## Leviticus 7:24 (id: 903007024)

24And the fat of a carcass or the fat of a torn animal shall be made for any work, but you shall certainly not eat it.


## Leviticus 7:25 (id: 903007025)

25When anyone is eating fat from the livestock that he presents from of it {as} a gift to Yahweh, then the person, the one eating it, shall be cut off from his people.


## Leviticus 7:26 (id: 903007026)

26And you shall not eat any blood in any of your dwelling places, of the bird or of the livestock.


## Leviticus 7:27 (id: 903007027)

27Any person who eats any blood, that person shall be cut off from his people.’”


## Leviticus 7:28 (id: 903007028)

28And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 7:29 (id: 903007029)

29“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘The person presenting the sacrifice of his peace offerings to Yahweh shall bring his offering to Yahweh from the sacrifice of his peace offerings.


## Leviticus 7:30 (id: 903007030)

30His hands shall bring a gift of Yahweh: the fat on the breast. He shall bring the breast to wave it {as} a wave offering to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 7:31 (id: 903007031)

31And the priest shall cause the fat to become smoke on the altar, and the breast shall be for Aaron and for his sons.


## Leviticus 7:32 (id: 903007032)

32And the right thigh you shall give {as} a contribution to the priest from the sacrifices of your peace offerings.


## Leviticus 7:33 (id: 903007033)

33The person presenting the blood of the peace offerings and the fat from the sons of Aaron, the right thigh shall be for him for a portion.


## Leviticus 7:34 (id: 903007034)

34For I took the breast of the wave offering and the thigh of the contribution from the sons of Israel from the sacrifices of their peace offerings and I gave them to Aaron the priest and to his sons as an enduring portion from the sons of Israel.‘“


## Leviticus 7:35 (id: 903007035)

35This {is} the allotment of Aaron and the allotment of his sons from the gifts of Yahweh, on the day he presented them as priests to Yahweh,


## Leviticus 7:36 (id: 903007036)

36which Yahweh commanded to give to them on the day of his anointing them from the people of Israel, an enduring statute for their generations.


## Leviticus 7:37 (id: 903007037)

37This {is} the instruction of the burnt offering, of the grain offering and of the sin offering and of the guilt offering and of the ordination offering and of the sacrifice of the peace offerings,


## Leviticus 7:38 (id: 903007038)

38which Yahweh commanded Moses on Mount Sinai on the day of his commanding the sons of Israel to present their offerings to Yahweh in the wilderness of Sinai.


## Leviticus 8:1 (id: 903008001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 8:2 (id: 903008002)

2“Take Aaron and his sons with him and the clothes and the oil of anointing and the bull of the sin offering and two rams and a basket of unleavened bread.


## Leviticus 8:3 (id: 903008003)

3And assemble the whole congregation at the entrance of the tent of meeting.”


## Leviticus 8:4 (id: 903008004)

4And Moses did just as Yahweh commanded him. And the congregation assembled at the entrance of the tent of meeting.


## Leviticus 8:5 (id: 903008005)

5And Moses said to the congregation, “This {is} the thing that Yahweh commanded to do.”


## Leviticus 8:6 (id: 903008006)

6Moses presented Aaron and his sons, and he washed them with water.


## Leviticus 8:7 (id: 903008007)

7And he gave the tunic on him and he wrapped him with the sash and he clothed him {with} the robe and he gave the ephod on him. And he wrapped him with the finely woven waistband of the ephod and he fastened {the ephod} on him with it.


## Leviticus 8:8 (id: 903008008)

8And he placed the breastplate on him and he gave the Urim and the Thummim to the breastplate.


## Leviticus 8:9 (id: 903008009)

9And he placed the turban on his head and he placed on the turban—to the front of its face—the plate of gold, the crown of holiness, just as Yahweh commanded Moses.


## Leviticus 8:10 (id: 903008010)

10And Moses took the oil of anointing, and he anointed the Dwelling and all that {was} in it. And he made them holy.


## Leviticus 8:11 (id: 903008011)

11And he sprinkled some of it on the altar seven times and he anointed the altar and all its utensils and the basin and its base to make them holy.


## Leviticus 8:12 (id: 903008012)

12And he poured some of the oil of anointing on the head of Aaron and he anointed him to make him holy.


## Leviticus 8:13 (id: 903008013)

13And Moses presented the sons of Aaron, and he clothed them {with} tunics and he wrapped them {with} sashes and he bound headbands on them, just as Yahweh commanded Moses.


## Leviticus 8:14 (id: 903008014)

14And he brought the bull of the sin offering near. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering.


## Leviticus 8:15 (id: 903008015)

15And he slaughtered {it}, and Moses took the blood, and he gave {it} on the horns of the altar all around with his finger. And he purified the altar and he poured out the blood at the base of the altar. And he made it holy to make atonement on it.


## Leviticus 8:16 (id: 903008016)

16And he took all the fat that {was} on the innards and the lobe of the liver and the two kidneys and their fat, and Moses caused {them} to become smoke on the altar.


## Leviticus 8:17 (id: 903008017)

17But the bull and its skin and its meat and its dung he burned with fire on the outside of the camp, just as Yahweh commanded Moses.


## Leviticus 8:18 (id: 903008018)

18And he presented the ram of the burnt offering. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.


## Leviticus 8:19 (id: 903008019)

19And he slaughtered {it}, and Moses splashed the blood on the altar all around.


## Leviticus 8:20 (id: 903008020)

20And he cut the ram into its pieces, and Moses caused the head and the pieces and the suet to become smoke.


## Leviticus 8:21 (id: 903008021)

21But the innards and the legs he washed with water. And Moses caused the whole ram to become smoke on the altar. It {was} a burnt offering, a pleasant smell. It {was} a gift to Yahweh, just as Yahweh commanded Moses.


## Leviticus 8:22 (id: 903008022)

22And he presented the second ram, the ram of the ordination offering. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.


## Leviticus 8:23 (id: 903008023)

23And he slaughtered {it}, and Moses took some of its blood, and he gave {it} on the earlobe of the right ear of Aaron and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot.


## Leviticus 8:24 (id: 903008024)

24And he presented the sons of Aaron, and Moses gave some of the blood on the earlobe of their right ear and on the thumb of their right hand and on the big toe of their right foot. And Moses splashed the blood on the altar all around.


## Leviticus 8:25 (id: 903008025)

25And he took the fat and the fatty tail and all the fat that {was} on the innards and the lobe of the liver and the two kidneys and their fat and the right thigh.


## Leviticus 8:26 (id: 903008026)

26And from the basket of the unleavened bread that {was} to the face of Yahweh, he took one loaf of unleavened bread and one loaf of bread of oil and one wafer and he placed them on the fat and on the right thigh.


## Leviticus 8:27 (id: 903008027)

27And he gave the whole on the palms of Aaron and on the palms of his sons and he waved them {as} a wave offering to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 8:28 (id: 903008028)

28And Moses took them from on their hands, and he caused {them} to become smoke on the altar, on the burnt offering. They {were} an ordination offering, a pleasant smell. It {was} a gift to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 8:29 (id: 903008029)

29And Moses took the breast, and he waved it {as} a wave offering to the face of Yahweh from the ram of the ordination offering. It {was} for Moses for a portion, just as Yahweh commanded Moses.


## Leviticus 8:30 (id: 903008030)

30And Moses took some of the oil of anointing and some of the blood that {was} on the altar, and he sprinkled {them} on Aaron, on his clothes and on his sons and on the clothes of his sons with him. And he made holy Aaron, his clothes and his sons and the clothes of his sons with him.


## Leviticus 8:31 (id: 903008031)

31And Moses said to Aaron and to his sons, “Boil the meat at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and there you shall eat it and the bread that {is} in the basket of the ordination offering, just as I commanded, saying, ‘Aaron and his sons shall eat it.’


## Leviticus 8:32 (id: 903008032)

32But the remainder among the meat and among the bread you shall burn in the fire.


## Leviticus 8:33 (id: 903008033)

33And you shall not go out from the entrance of the tent of meeting {for} seven days, until the day of the filling of the days of your ordination, because {for} seven days, he will fill your hand.


## Leviticus 8:34 (id: 903008034)

34Just as he did on this day, Yahweh commanded to do, to make atonement for you.


## Leviticus 8:35 (id: 903008035)

35And at the entrance of the tent of meeting you shall stay day and night {for} seven days and you shall keep the watch of Yahweh and you will not die, because thus I have been commanded.”


## Leviticus 8:36 (id: 903008036)

36And Aaron and his sons did all the things that Yahweh commanded by the hand of Moses.


## Leviticus 9:1 (id: 903009001)

1And it was, on the eighth day, Moses called to Aaron and to his sons and to the elders of Israel.


## Leviticus 9:2 (id: 903009002)

2And he said to Aaron, “Take for yourself a calf, a son of the cattle, for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, perfect, and present {them} to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 9:3 (id: 903009003)

3And to the sons of Israel, you will speak, saying, ‘Take a buck of the goats for a sin offering and a calf and a lamb, perfect sons of a year, for a burnt offering,


## Leviticus 9:4 (id: 903009004)

4and an ox and a ram for peace offerings to sacrifice to the face of Yahweh, and a grain offering mixed with oil, for today Yahweh will appear to you.’”


## Leviticus 9:5 (id: 903009005)

5And they brought that which Moses commanded to the face of the tent of meeting. And the whole congregation presented {them}, and they stood to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 9:6 (id: 903009006)

6And Moses said, “This {is} the thing that Yahweh commanded you will do, and the glory of Yahweh will appear to you.”


## Leviticus 9:7 (id: 903009007)

7And Moses said to Aaron, “Draw near to the altar and make your sin offering and your burnt offering and make atonement for the benefit of yourself and for the benefit of the people. And make the offering of the people and make atonement for their benefit, just as Yahweh commanded.”


## Leviticus 9:8 (id: 903009008)

8And Aaron drew near to the altar, and he slaughtered the calf of the sin offering, which {was} for himself.


## Leviticus 9:9 (id: 903009009)

9And the sons of Aaron presented the blood to him, and he dipped his finger in the blood and he gave {it} on the horns of the altar. And the blood he poured out at the base of the altar.


## Leviticus 9:10 (id: 903009010)

10And the fat and the kidneys and the lobe from the liver from the sin offering he caused to become smoke on the altar, just as Yahweh commanded Moses.


## Leviticus 9:11 (id: 903009011)

11But the meat and the skin he burned with fire on the outside of the camp.


## Leviticus 9:12 (id: 903009012)

12And he slaughtered the burnt offering. And the sons of Aaron brought the blood to him, and he splashed it on the altar all around.


## Leviticus 9:13 (id: 903009013)

13And the burnt offering they brought to him in its pieces and the head, and he caused {them} to become smoke on the altar.


## Leviticus 9:14 (id: 903009014)

14And he washed the innards and the legs and he caused {them} to become smoke on the burnt offering, on the altar.


## Leviticus 9:15 (id: 903009015)

15And he presented the offering of the people. And he took the goat of the sin offering that {was} for the people and he slaughtered it and he offered it as a sin offering, like the first.


## Leviticus 9:16 (id: 903009016)

16And he presented the burnt offering and he did it according to the regulation.


## Leviticus 9:17 (id: 903009017)

17And he presented the grain offering and he filled his palm from it and he caused {it} to become smoke on the altar in addition to the burnt offering of the morning.


## Leviticus 9:18 (id: 903009018)

18And he slaughtered the ox and the ram of the sacrifice of the peace offerings that {were} for the people. And the sons of Aaron brought the blood to him, and he splashed it on the altar all around.


## Leviticus 9:19 (id: 903009019)

19And the fat from the bull and from the ram, the fatty tail and that which covers {the innards} and the kidneys and the lobe of the liver—


## Leviticus 9:20 (id: 903009020)

20they put the fat on the breasts, and he caused the fat portions to become smoke on the altar.


## Leviticus 9:21 (id: 903009021)

21And the breasts and the right thigh, Aaron waved {as} a wave offering to the face of Yahweh, just as Moses had commanded.


## Leviticus 9:22 (id: 903009022)

22And Aaron lifted his hands toward the people, and he blessed them. And he came down from making the sin offering and the burnt offering and the peace offerings.


## Leviticus 9:23 (id: 903009023)

23And Moses and Aaron came into the tent of meeting, and they went out, and they blessed the people. And the glory of Yahweh appeared to all the people.


## Leviticus 9:24 (id: 903009024)

24And fire went out from before the face of Yahweh, and it consumed the burnt offering and the fat on the altar. And all the people saw, and they shouted and they fell on their faces.


## Leviticus 10:1 (id: 903010001)

1And the sons of Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, each took his censer, and they gave fire in them and they put incense on it. And they offered to the face of Yahweh strange fire that he did not command them.


## Leviticus 10:2 (id: 903010002)

2And fire went out from before the face of Yahweh, and it consumed them. And they died to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 10:3 (id: 903010003)

3And Moses said to Aaron, ”This is what Yahweh spoke, saying, ‘Among those who draw near to me, I will show myself to be holy. And on the faces of all the people, I will be honored.’” And Aaron was silent.


## Leviticus 10:4 (id: 903010004)

4And Moses called to Mishael and to Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron. And he said to them, “Present {yourselves and} lift your brothers from the face of the Holy Place to {a place} on the outside of the camp.”


## Leviticus 10:5 (id: 903010005)

5And they presented {themselves} and they lifted them by their tunics to {a place} on the outside of the camp, just as Moses had spoken.


## Leviticus 10:6 (id: 903010006)

6And Moses said to Aaron and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his sons, “Do not let your heads be loose and do not tear your clothes so that you will not die and against all the congregation he will {not} be angry. But your brothers, all of the house of Israel, shall weep {for} the burning that Yahweh has burned.


## Leviticus 10:7 (id: 903010007)

7And from the entrance of the tent of meeting, you shall not go out, lest you die, for the oil of the anointing of Yahweh {is} on you.” And they did according to the word of Moses.


## Leviticus 10:8 (id: 903010008)

8And Yahweh spoke to Aaron, saying,


## Leviticus 10:9 (id: 903010009)

9“Wine or beer do not drink, you or your sons with you, when you go into the tent of meeting, and you will not die—an enduring statute throughout your generations—


## Leviticus 10:10 (id: 903010010)

10and to separate between the holy and between the common and between the unclean and between the clean,


## Leviticus 10:11 (id: 903010011)

11and to teach the sons of Israel all the statutes that Yahweh has spoken to them by the hand of Moses.”


## Leviticus 10:12 (id: 903010012)

12And Moses spoke to Aaron, and to Eleazar and to Ithamar, his remaining sons, “Take the grain offering, the remainder from the gifts of Yahweh, and eat it unleavened beside the altar, for it is a holy thing of the holy things.


## Leviticus 10:13 (id: 903010013)

13And you shall eat it in a holy place because it {is} your portion and the portion of your sons from the gifts of Yahweh because thus I have been commanded.


## Leviticus 10:14 (id: 903010014)

14And the breast of the wave offering and the thigh of the contribution you shall eat in a clean place, you and your sons and your daughters with you, for they are given {as} your portion and the portion of your sons from the sacrifices of the peace offerings of the sons of Israel.


## Leviticus 10:15 (id: 903010015)

15The thigh of the contribution and the breast of the wave offering, in addition to the gifts of the fat portions, they shall bring to wave {as} a wave offering to the face of Yahweh. And it shall be for you and for your sons with you as an enduring portion, just as Yahweh commanded.”


## Leviticus 10:16 (id: 903010016)

16And the goat of the sin offering Moses, searching, searched for. But look! It had been burned up! And he was angry with Eleazar and with Ithamar, the remaining sons of Aaron, saying,


## Leviticus 10:17 (id: 903010017)

17“Why have you not eaten the sin offering in the holy place, for it is a holy thing of holy things? And he gave it to you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 10:18 (id: 903010018)

18Look, its blood was not brought into the inner Holy Place. Eating, you shall eat it in the holy place, just as I commanded!”


## Leviticus 10:19 (id: 903010019)

19And Aaron spoke to Moses, “Look, today they presented their sin offering and their burnt offering to the face of Yahweh, and it has happened to me according to these things. But {if} I ate the sin offering today, would it have been good in the eyes of Yahweh?”


## Leviticus 10:20 (id: 903010020)

20And Moses heard, and it was good in his eyes.


## Leviticus 11:1 (id: 903011001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying to them,


## Leviticus 11:2 (id: 903011002)

2“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘This {is} the living thing that you shall eat from all the livestock that {are} on the earth.


## Leviticus 11:3 (id: 903011003)

3Anything dividing a hoof and splitting the cleft of hooves, making the cud go up among the livestock—you shall eat it.


## Leviticus 11:4 (id: 903011004)

4However, this you shall not eat from the ones that are making the cud go up or from the ones that are dividing a hoof: the camel, because it is making the cud go up but a hoof it is not dividing. It {is} unclean to you.


## Leviticus 11:5 (id: 903011005)

5And the rock badger, because it is making the cud go up, but it does not divide a hoof. It {is} unclean to you.


## Leviticus 11:6 (id: 903011006)

6And the rabbit, because it is making the cud go up, but it does not divide a hoof. It {is} unclean to you.


## Leviticus 11:7 (id: 903011007)

7And the pig, because it is dividing a hoof and splitting the cleft of a hoof, but it itself does not chew the cud. It {is} unclean to you.


## Leviticus 11:8 (id: 903011008)

8You shall not eat from their meat and you shall not touch their carcasses. They {are} unclean to you.


## Leviticus 11:9 (id: 903011009)

9This you shall eat from everything that {is} in the water: everything that {is} to it fins and scales in the water, in the seas, and in the rivers—them you shall eat.


## Leviticus 11:10 (id: 903011010)

10But everything that there is not to it fins or scales in the seas or in the rivers, from every swarming thing of the water and from every life of a living thing that {is} in the water—they {are} a detestable thing to you.


## Leviticus 11:11 (id: 903011011)

11And they shall be a detestable thing to you. You shall not eat from their meat and you shall detest their carcasses.


## Leviticus 11:12 (id: 903011012)

12Everything that there is not to it fins or scales in the water—it {is} a detestable thing to you.


## Leviticus 11:13 (id: 903011013)

13And these you shall detest from the bird. They shall not be eaten; they {are} a detestable thing: the eagle and the vulture and the buzzard


## Leviticus 11:14 (id: 903011014)

14and the kite and the falcon of its kind,


## Leviticus 11:15 (id: 903011015)

15any raven of its kind


## Leviticus 11:16 (id: 903011016)

16and the daughter of clamor and the owl and the gull and the hawk of its kind


## Leviticus 11:17 (id: 903011017)

17and the little owl and the cormorant and the big owl


## Leviticus 11:18 (id: 903011018)

18and the waterhen and the pelican and the ibis


## Leviticus 11:19 (id: 903011019)

19and the stork, the heron of its kind and the hoopoe and the bat.


## Leviticus 11:20 (id: 903011020)

20Every swarming thing of the wing, the one walking on four—it {is} a detestable thing to you.


## Leviticus 11:21 (id: 903011021)

21However, this you shall eat from every swarming thing of the wing, the one walking on four: that which to it {are} legs from above to its feet to jump with them on the earth.


## Leviticus 11:22 (id: 903011022)

22These from them you shall eat: the locust of its kind and the bald locust of its kind and the cricket of its kind and the grasshopper of its kind.


## Leviticus 11:23 (id: 903011023)

23But every swarming thing of the wing that to it {are} four feet—it {is} a detestable thing to you.


## Leviticus 11:24 (id: 903011024)

24And by these, you will make yourselves unclean; anyone who touches their carcasses will become unclean until the evening,


## Leviticus 11:25 (id: 903011025)

25and anyone lifting {one} of their carcasses shall wash his clothes, and he will be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 11:26 (id: 903011026)

26To any livestock that it {is} dividing the hoof, but it is not splitting the cleft, and it is not making the cud go up—they {are} unclean to you. Anyone who touches them will become unclean.


## Leviticus 11:27 (id: 903011027)

27And anything walking on its palms among any living thing, the ones walking on four—they {are} unclean to you. Anyone who touches their carcasses will become unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 11:28 (id: 903011028)

28And the one who lifts their carcasses shall wash his clothes and he will become unclean until the evening. They {are} unclean to you.


## Leviticus 11:29 (id: 903011029)

29And these {are} unclean to you among the swarming things, the ones that swarm on the earth: the rat and the mouse and the large lizard of its kind


## Leviticus 11:30 (id: 903011030)

30and the gecko and the monitor lizard and the lizard and the skink and the chameleon.


## Leviticus 11:31 (id: 903011031)

31These {are} unclean to you among all the swarming things. Anyone who touches them when they are dead will become unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 11:32 (id: 903011032)

32And anything on which {one} from them falls when they are dead will become unclean, from any vessel of wood or cloth or leather or sackcloth—any vessel that work is done with them shall be brought into the water, and it will be unclean until the evening. Then it will be clean.


## Leviticus 11:33 (id: 903011033)

33And any vessel of clay that {one} from them falls into its midst—everything that {is} in its midst will become unclean, and you shall break it.


## Leviticus 11:34 (id: 903011034)

34From any food that is eaten that water comes onto it will become unclean, and any drink that is drunk from any vessel will become unclean.


## Leviticus 11:35 (id: 903011035)

35And anything on which {one} of their carcasses falls will become unclean. An oven or stove shall be smashed. They {are} unclean and they shall be unclean to you.


## Leviticus 11:36 (id: 903011036)

36However, a spring or well, a reservoir of water, will be clean, but the one touching their carcass will become unclean.


## Leviticus 11:37 (id: 903011037)

37But when {one} of their carcass falls on any seed, a sown seed that will be sown, it {is} clean.


## Leviticus 11:38 (id: 903011038)

38But when water is given on seed, and {one} of their carcass falls onto it, it {is} unclean to you.


## Leviticus 11:39 (id: 903011039)

39But when {one} from the livestock that it {is} to you to eat dies, the one touching its carcass will become unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 11:40 (id: 903011040)

40And the one eating from its carcass shall wash his clothes, and he will be unclean until the evening. And the one lifting its carcass shall wash his clothes, and he will be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 11:41 (id: 903011041)

41And every swarming thing, the one swarming on the ground—it {is} a detestable thing. It shall not be eaten.


## Leviticus 11:42 (id: 903011042)

42Anything walking on a belly and anything walking on four up to anything multiplying feet—of any swarming thing, the one swarming on the earth, them you shall not eat because they {are} a detestable thing.


## Leviticus 11:43 (id: 903011043)

43You shall not make your spirits detestable with any swarming thing, the one swarming. And you shall not make yourselves unclean with them and be made unclean by them.


## Leviticus 11:44 (id: 903011044)

44For I {am} Yahweh your God. And you shall make yourselves holy, and you shall be holy {people} because I {am} holy. And you shall not make your spirits unclean with any swarming thing, the one crawling on the earth.


## Leviticus 11:45 (id: 903011045)

45For I {am} Yahweh, the one bringing you up from the land of Egypt to be God for you. And you shall be holy {people}, for I {am} holy.


## Leviticus 11:46 (id: 903011046)

46This {is} the instruction of the livestock and the bird and every life of the living thing, the ones swarming in the water, and of every life, the ones crawling on the earth,


## Leviticus 11:47 (id: 903011047)

47to separate between the unclean and between the clean and between the living thing, the one being eaten, and between the living thing that shall not be eaten.’”


## Leviticus 12:1 (id: 903012001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 12:2 (id: 903012002)

2“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘A woman, when she bears seed and she bears a male, then she will be unclean {for} seven days. Like the days of the menstruation of her menstruating, she is unclean.


## Leviticus 12:3 (id: 903012003)

3And on the eighth day, the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised.


## Leviticus 12:4 (id: 903012004)

4And 30 days and three days she shall stay in the blood of her purification. Any holy thing she shall not touch and into the holy place she shall not go until the days of her purification are full.


## Leviticus 12:5 (id: 903012005)

5But if she bears a female, then she will be unclean {for} two sets of seven {days}, like her menstruation. And 60 days and six days she shall stay in the blood of her purification.


## Leviticus 12:6 (id: 903012006)

6And when the days of her purification are full, for a son or for a daughter, she shall bring a lamb, a son of its year, as a burnt offering, and a son of a pigeon or turtledove as a sin offering, to the entrance of the tent of meeting, to the priest.


## Leviticus 12:7 (id: 903012007)

7And he shall present it to the face of Yahweh and he shall make atonement for her. And she will be purified from the flow of her blood. This {is} the instruction of the {woman} who bears a male or a female.


## Leviticus 12:8 (id: 903012008)

8But if her hand does not find enough of a lamb, then she shall take two turtledoves or two sons of the pigeon, one for a burnt offering and one for a sin offering. And the priest shall make atonement for her. And she will be clean.’”


## Leviticus 13:1 (id: 903013001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,


## Leviticus 13:2 (id: 903013002)

2“A man, when he has on the skin of his flesh a swelling or a scab or a bright spot, and it becomes on the skin of his flesh an infection of skin disease, then he shall be brought to Aaron the priest or to one from his sons the priests.


## Leviticus 13:3 (id: 903013003)

3And the priest shall see the infection on the skin of the flesh, and {if} the hair on the infection has turned white, and the appearance of the infection {is} deeper than the skin of his flesh, it {is} an infection of skin disease. And the priest shall see it, and he shall pronounce him unclean.


## Leviticus 13:4 (id: 903013004)

4And if it {is} a white bright spot on the skin of his flesh, and deep is not the appearance of it from the skin, and its hair has not turned white, then the priest shall separate the infection {for} seven days.


## Leviticus 13:5 (id: 903013005)

5And the priest shall see it on the seventh day, and look, the infection stands in his eyes; the infection has not spread on the skin. Then the priest shall separate him {for} a second seven days.


## Leviticus 13:6 (id: 903013006)

6And the priest shall see him on the second seventh day, and look, the infection has faded and the infection has not spread on the skin. Then the priest shall pronounce him clean. It {is} a scab, and he shall wash his clothes and he will be clean.


## Leviticus 13:7 (id: 903013007)

7But if, spreading, the scab spreads on the skin after his appearing to the priest for his being pronounced clean, then he shall appear to the priest a second {time}.


## Leviticus 13:8 (id: 903013008)

8And the priest shall see, and look, the scab has spread on the skin. Then the priest shall make him unclean. It {is} a skin disease.


## Leviticus 13:9 (id: 903013009)

9An infection of skin disease, when it is on a man, then he shall be brought to the priest.


## Leviticus 13:10 (id: 903013010)

10And the priest shall see, and look, a white swelling {is} on the skin, and it has turned the hair white, and a preservation of living flesh {is} on the swelling.


## Leviticus 13:11 (id: 903013011)

11It {is} a reoccurring skin disease on the skin of his flesh, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean. He shall not separate him, because he {is} unclean.


## Leviticus 13:12 (id: 903013012)

12But if, breaking out, the skin disease breaks out on the skin, and the skin disease covers all the skin of the infection, from his head and to his feet, to the whole appearance of the eyes of the priest,


## Leviticus 13:13 (id: 903013013)

13then the priest shall see, and look, the skin disease has covered his whole flesh. Then he shall pronounce the infection clean. All of it has turned white; he {is} clean.


## Leviticus 13:14 (id: 903013014)

14And on the day of the appearing of living flesh on him, he will be unclean.


## Leviticus 13:15 (id: 903013015)

15And the priest shall see the living flesh, and he shall pronounce him unclean. The living flesh, it {is} unclean. It {is} a skin disease.


## Leviticus 13:16 (id: 903013016)

16Or when the living flesh returns, and it is turned to white, then he shall go to the priest.


## Leviticus 13:17 (id: 903013017)

17And the priest shall see him, and look, the infection has been turned to white. Then the priest shall pronounce the infection clean. He {is} clean.


## Leviticus 13:18 (id: 903013018)

18But flesh, when it has on it, on his skin, a boil, and it has been healed,


## Leviticus 13:19 (id: 903013019)

19and a white swelling or a white\-reddish bright spot is in the place of the boil, then he shall appear to the priest.


## Leviticus 13:20 (id: 903013020)

20And the priest shall see, and look, the appearance {is} deeper than the skin, and its hair has turned white. Then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It {is} an infection of skin disease; it has broken out in the boil.


## Leviticus 13:21 (id: 903013021)

21And if the priest sees it, and look, there is no white hair on it, and lower it is not than the skin, and it has faded, then the priest shall separate him {for} seven days.


## Leviticus 13:22 (id: 903013022)

22But if, spreading, it spreads on the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It {is} an infection.


## Leviticus 13:23 (id: 903013023)

23But if the bright spot stands under it (it has not spread), it {is} the scar of the boil. And the priest shall pronounce him clean.


## Leviticus 13:24 (id: 903013024)

24Or flesh, when it has a burn of fire on his skin, and the preservation of the burn has become a reddish\-white or white spot,


## Leviticus 13:25 (id: 903013025)

25then the priest shall see it, and look, the hair has been turned white on the bright spot, and the appearance of it {is} deeper than the skin; it {is} a skin disease. It has broken out on the burn. And the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It {is} an infection of skin disease.


## Leviticus 13:26 (id: 903013026)

26But if the priest sees it and, look, there is no white hair on the spot, and deeper it is not than the skin, but it {is} faded, then the priest shall separate him {for} seven days.


## Leviticus 13:27 (id: 903013027)

27And the priest shall see him on the seventh day. If, spreading, it has spread on the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It {is} an infection of skin disease.


## Leviticus 13:28 (id: 903013028)

28But if the bright spot stands under it—it has not spread on the skin but it {is} faded—it {is} the swelling of the burn. And the priest shall pronounce him clean because it {is} the scar of the burn.


## Leviticus 13:29 (id: 903013029)

29And a man or a woman, when he has an infection on him, on a head or in a beard,


## Leviticus 13:30 (id: 903013030)

30then the priest shall see the infection. And look, the appearance of it {is} deeper than the skin, and on it {is} yellow, thin hair. Then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It {is} a scall. It {is} a skin disease of the head or the beard.


## Leviticus 13:31 (id: 903013031)

31But when the priest sees the infection of the scall, and look, the appearance of it is not deeper than the skin, and there is no black hair on it. Then the priest shall separate the infection of the scall {for} seven days.


## Leviticus 13:32 (id: 903013032)

32And the priest shall see the infection on the seventh day. And look, the scall has not spread, and yellow hair is not on it, and the appearance of the scall is not deeper than the skin.


## Leviticus 13:33 (id: 903013033)

33Then he shall shave himself, but the scall shall not be shaved. And the priest shall separate the scall {for} a second seven days.


## Leviticus 13:34 (id: 903013034)

34And the priest shall see the scall on the seventh day. And look, the scall has not spread on the skin, and the appearance of it is not deeper than the skin. Then the priest shall pronounce him clean. And he shall wash his clothes, and he will be clean.


## Leviticus 13:35 (id: 903013035)

35But if, spreading, the scall has spread on the skin after his cleansing,


## Leviticus 13:36 (id: 903013036)

36then the priest shall see him. And, look, the scall has spread on the skin. The priest shall not seek for yellow hair; he {is} unclean.


## Leviticus 13:37 (id: 903013037)

37But if, in his eyes, the scall stands, and black hair has sprouted on it, the scall has been healed. He {is} clean, and the priest shall pronounce him clean.


## Leviticus 13:38 (id: 903013038)

38And a man or a woman, when he has on the skin of their flesh bright spots, white bright spots,


## Leviticus 13:39 (id: 903013039)

39then the priest shall see. And look, the bright spots on the skin of their flesh {are} dull white; it {is} a rash. It has broken out on the skin. He {is} clean.


## Leviticus 13:40 (id: 903013040)

40And a man, when his head is made bare, he {is} bald. He {is} clean.


## Leviticus 13:41 (id: 903013041)

41And if his head is made bare from the corners of his face, he {is} balding. He {is} clean.


## Leviticus 13:42 (id: 903013042)

42But when there is on the {back} bald spot or on the {front} balding spot a reddish\-white infection, it {is} a skin disease, breaking out on his {back} bald spot or on his {front} balding spot.


## Leviticus 13:43 (id: 903013043)

43Then the priest shall see him. And look, the swelling of the infection is reddish\-white on his {back} bald spot or on his {front} balding spot, like the appearance of the skin disease of the skin of the flesh.


## Leviticus 13:44 (id: 903013044)

44He {is} a man of skin disease; he {is} unclean. Being unclean, the priest shall pronounce him unclean on his head of his infection.


## Leviticus 13:45 (id: 903013045)

45But the person with a skin disease, who {has} on him the infection, on his clothes, they shall be torn, and his head shall be unbound, and he shall cover over the mustache, and ‘Unclean, unclean!’ he shall call out.


## Leviticus 13:46 (id: 903013046)

46All the days that the infection {is} on him he will be unclean. He {is} unclean. He shall dwell alone; his dwelling {shall be} outside the camp.


## Leviticus 13:47 (id: 903013047)

47But the clothing, when it has on it the infection of disease, on clothing of wool or on clothing of linen,


## Leviticus 13:48 (id: 903013048)

48or in the warp or in the woof of the linen or of the wool, or on leather, or on any work of leather,


## Leviticus 13:49 (id: 903013049)

49and the infection is yellowish\-green or reddish on the clothing or on the leather or in the warp or in the woof or on any equipment of leather, it {is} an infection of disease. And the priest shall be made to see {it}.


## Leviticus 13:50 (id: 903013050)

50And the priest shall see the infection, and he shall separate the infection {for} seven days.


## Leviticus 13:51 (id: 903013051)

51And he shall see the infection on the seventh day. If the infection has spread on the clothing or in the warp or in the woof or on the leather—of any equipment into which the leather was made—the infection {is} a malignant disease. It {is} unclean.


## Leviticus 13:52 (id: 903013052)

52And he shall burn the clothing or the warp or the woof, on wool or on linen or any equipment of leather, whatever has on it the infection because it {is} a malignant disease. It shall be burned with fire.


## Leviticus 13:53 (id: 903013053)

53But if the priest sees, and look, the infection has not spread on the clothing or in the warp or in the woof or on any equipment of leather,


## Leviticus 13:54 (id: 903013054)

54then the priest shall command, and they shall wash that which the infection {was} on it. And he shall separate it {for} a second seven days.


## Leviticus 13:55 (id: 903013055)

55And the priest shall see after the infection has been washed, and look, the infection has not turned its eye and the infection has not spread. It {is} unclean. You shall burn it with fire. It {is} a rot, on its {front} bare side or on its {back} bare side.


## Leviticus 13:56 (id: 903013056)

56But if the priest sees, and look, the infection has faded after it was washed, then he shall tear it from the clothing or from the leather or from the warp or from the woof.


## Leviticus 13:57 (id: 903013057)

57And if it still appears on the clothing or in the warp or in the woof or on any equipment of leather, it is breaking out. You shall burn it with fire—that which {has} the infection on it.


## Leviticus 13:58 (id: 903013058)

58But the clothing or the warp or the woof or any equipment of leather that you washed and the infection turned aside from them, it shall be washed a second {time}, and it will be clean.


## Leviticus 13:59 (id: 903013059)

59This {is} the instruction of the infection of disease of clothing of wool or linen or warp or woof or any equipment of leather to pronounce it clean or to pronounce it unclean.”


## Leviticus 14:1 (id: 903014001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 14:2 (id: 903014002)

2“This will be the law of the person with a skin disease on the day of his cleansing. And he shall be brought to the priest.


## Leviticus 14:3 (id: 903014003)

3And the priest shall go out to {a place} on the outside of the camp and the priest shall see. And look, the infection of the skin disease was healed from the person with the skin disease.


## Leviticus 14:4 (id: 903014004)

4Then the priest shall command, and he shall take for the person who is being cleansed two live, clean birds and wood of cedar and crimson of worm and hyssop.


## Leviticus 14:5 (id: 903014005)

5And the priest shall command, and he shall slaughter one bird into a container of clay, over living water.


## Leviticus 14:6 (id: 903014006)

6The live bird, he shall take it and the wood of cedar and the crimson of worm and the hyssop, and he shall dip them and the live bird in the blood of the bird, the slaughtered one, over the living water.


## Leviticus 14:7 (id: 903014007)

7And he shall sprinkle on the person who is being cleansed from the skin disease seven times, and he shall pronounce him clean. And he will send the live bird toward the face of the field.


## Leviticus 14:8 (id: 903014008)

8And the person who is being cleansed shall wash his clothes, and he shall shave all his hair and he shall bathe in the water and he will be clean. And afterward, he shall enter into the camp and he shall dwell in {a place} outside of his tent {for} seven days.


## Leviticus 14:9 (id: 903014009)

9And it will be, on the seventh day, he shall shave all his hair. His head and his beard and the brows of his eyes and all his hair he shall shave. And he shall wash his clothes and he shall bathe his flesh in the water. And he will be clean.


## Leviticus 14:10 (id: 903014010)

10And on the eighth day, he shall take two perfect {male} lambs and one {female} lamb, a perfect daughter of her year, and three\-tenths of flour, a grain offering mixed with oil, and one measure of oil.


## Leviticus 14:11 (id: 903014011)

11And the priest, the one pronouncing clean, shall make the man, the person being cleansed, and them stand to the face of Yahweh {at} the entrance of the tent of meeting.


## Leviticus 14:12 (id: 903014012)

12And the priest shall take one lamb, and he shall present it as a guilt offering and the measure of oil. And he shall wave them {as} a wave offering to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 14:13 (id: 903014013)

13And he shall slaughter the lamb in the place where he slaughters the sin offering and the burnt offering, in the holy place, for the guilt offering {is} like the sin offering; it {is} for the priest. It {is} a holy thing of holy things.


## Leviticus 14:14 (id: 903014014)

14And the priest shall take some of the blood of the guilt offering and the priest shall give {it} on the lobe of the right ear of the person who is being cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot.


## Leviticus 14:15 (id: 903014015)

15And the priest shall take some of the measure of oil, and he shall pour {it} on the left palm of the priest.


## Leviticus 14:16 (id: 903014016)

16And the priest shall dip his right finger {in} some of the oil that {is} on his left palm, and he shall sprinkle some of the oil with his finger seven times to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 14:17 (id: 903014017)

17And the priest shall give some of the remainder of the oil that {is} on his palm on the lobe of the right ear of the person being cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot, on the blood of the guilt offering.


## Leviticus 14:18 (id: 903014018)

18And the remainder of the oil that {is} on the palm of the priest he shall give on the head of the person being cleansed. And the priest shall make atonement for him to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 14:19 (id: 903014019)

19And the priest shall make the sin offering, and he shall make atonement for the person being cleansed from his uncleanness. And after, he shall slaughter the burnt offering.


## Leviticus 14:20 (id: 903014020)

20And the priest shall make the burnt offering and the grain offering go up on the altar. And the priest shall make atonement for him, and he will be clean.


## Leviticus 14:21 (id: 903014021)

21But if he {is} poor and his hand is not reaching, then he shall take one lamb {as} a guilt offering to wave, to make atonement for him, and one\-tenth of flour mixed with oil as a grain offering and a measure of oil


## Leviticus 14:22 (id: 903014022)

22and two doves or two sons of a pigeon that his hand reaches. And one will be a sin offering and one a burnt offering.


## Leviticus 14:23 (id: 903014023)

23And on the eighth day, he shall bring them for his cleansing to the priest, to the entrance of the tent of meeting, to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 14:24 (id: 903014024)

24And the priest shall take the lamb of the guilt offering and the measure of oil. And the priest shall wave them {as} a wave offering to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 14:25 (id: 903014025)

25And he shall slaughter the lamb of the guilt offering. And the priest shall take some of the blood of the guilt offering, and he shall give {it} on the lobe of the right ear of the person being cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot.


## Leviticus 14:26 (id: 903014026)

26And some of the oil the priest shall pour on the left palm of the priest.


## Leviticus 14:27 (id: 903014027)

27And the priest shall sprinkle with his right finger some of the oil that {is} on his left palm seven times to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 14:28 (id: 903014028)

28And the priest shall give some of the oil that {is} on his palm on the lobe of the right ear of the person being cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot, on the place of the blood of the guilt offering.


## Leviticus 14:29 (id: 903014029)

29And the remainder of the oil that {is} on the palm of the priest he shall give on the head of the person being cleansed, to make atonement for him to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 14:30 (id: 903014030)

30And he shall make one from the doves or from the sons of the pigeon, from whatever his hand reaches—


## Leviticus 14:31 (id: 903014031)

31whatever his hand reaches, one {as} a sin offering and one {as} a burnt offering, with the grain offering. And the priest shall make atonement for the person being cleansed to the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 14:32 (id: 903014032)

32This {is} the instruction of whoever {is} on him an infection of a skin disease, whose hand does not reach his cleansing.”


## Leviticus 14:33 (id: 903014033)

33And Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,


## Leviticus 14:34 (id: 903014034)

34“When you enter into the land of Canaan, which I am giving to you as a possession, and I give an infection of a disease in a house of the land of your possession,


## Leviticus 14:35 (id: 903014035)

35then he whom the house {is} to him shall come, and he shall inform the priest, saying, ‘{Something} like an infection has appeared to me in the house.’


## Leviticus 14:36 (id: 903014036)

36The priest shall command, and they shall open the house before the priest comes to see the infection, and everything that {is} in the house will not be pronounced unclean. And after thus, the priest shall come to see the house.


## Leviticus 14:37 (id: 903014037)

37And he shall see the infection and look, the infection in the walls of the house {is} greenish or reddish eruptions, and their appearance {is} deeper than the wall.


## Leviticus 14:38 (id: 903014038)

38Then the priest shall go out from the house to the entrance of the house, and he shall separate the house {for} seven days.


## Leviticus 14:39 (id: 903014039)

39And the priest shall return on the seventh day, and he shall see, and, look, the infection has spread in the walls of the house.


## Leviticus 14:40 (id: 903014040)

40And the priest shall command, and they shall pull out the stones that the infection {is} on them, and they shall cast them to {a place} on the outside of the city, to an unclean place.


## Leviticus 14:41 (id: 903014041)

41And the house he shall have scraped from the house all around. And they shall pour out the soil that they scrape off at {a place} on the outside of the city, at an unclean place.


## Leviticus 14:42 (id: 903014042)

42And they shall take other stones and they shall bring {them} into under the stones, and he shall take other soil and he shall plaster the house.


## Leviticus 14:43 (id: 903014043)

43But if the infection returns and it breaks out in the house after the pulling out of the stones and after the scrapping off of the house and after the plastering,


## Leviticus 14:44 (id: 903014044)

44then the priest shall come and he shall see. And, look, the infection has spread in the house; it {is} a malignant infection in the house. It {is} unclean.


## Leviticus 14:45 (id: 903014045)

45Then he shall tear down the house: its stones and its wood and all the soil of the house. And he shall take {them} out to {a place} on the outside of the city, to an unclean place.


## Leviticus 14:46 (id: 903014046)

46And the person who enters into the house all of the days of his separating it will be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 14:47 (id: 903014047)

47And the person dwelling in the house shall wash his clothes. And the person eating in the house shall wash his clothes.


## Leviticus 14:48 (id: 903014048)

48But if, coming, the priest comes, and he sees, and look, the infection has not spread in the house after the plastering of the house, then the priest shall pronounce the house clean because the infection was healed.


## Leviticus 14:49 (id: 903014049)

49And he shall take two birds and wood of cedar and scarlet of worm and hyssop to cleanse the house.


## Leviticus 14:50 (id: 903014050)

50And he shall slaughter one bird into a vessel of clay, over living water.


## Leviticus 14:51 (id: 903014051)

51And he shall take the wood of cedar and the hyssop and the scarlet of worm and the live bird and he shall dip them in the blood of the bird, the one that was slaughtered, and in the living water, and he shall sprinkle {them} on the house seven times.


## Leviticus 14:52 (id: 903014052)

52And he shall purify the house with the blood of the bird and with the living water and with the live bird and with the wood of cedar and with the hyssop and with the scarlet of worm.


## Leviticus 14:53 (id: 903014053)

53And he shall send the live bird to {a place} on the outside of the city, toward the face of the field. And he shall make atonement for the house, and it will be clean.


## Leviticus 14:54 (id: 903014054)

54This {is} the instruction of every infection of the skin disease and of the scall


## Leviticus 14:55 (id: 903014055)

55and of a skin disease of clothing and of the house


## Leviticus 14:56 (id: 903014056)

56and of the swelling and of the rash and of the bright spot


## Leviticus 14:57 (id: 903014057)

57in order to teach on the day of uncleanness or on the day of cleanness. This {is} the instruction of the skin disease.”


## Leviticus 15:1 (id: 903015001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,


## Leviticus 15:2 (id: 903015002)

2“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, ‘A man, a man, when he is flowing from his flesh, his flow—it {is} unclean.


## Leviticus 15:3 (id: 903015003)

3And this is his uncleanness in his flow: {whether} his flesh secretes his flow or his flesh blocks his flow, it {is} his uncleanness.


## Leviticus 15:4 (id: 903015004)

4Any bed on which the flowing {person} lies shall be unclean, and any furniture on which he sits shall be unclean.


## Leviticus 15:5 (id: 903015005)

5And a man who touches his bed shall wash his clothes. And he shall bathe with water and he shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:6 (id: 903015006)

6And the person who sits on the furniture on which the flowing {person} sat shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe with water and he shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:7 (id: 903015007)

7And the person who touches the flesh of the flowing {person} shall wash his clothes. And he shall bathe with water and he shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:8 (id: 903015008)

8And when the flowing {person} spits on a person who is clean, then he shall wash his clothes and he shall bathe with water and he shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:9 (id: 903015009)

9And any means of riding on which the flowing {person} rides shall be unclean.


## Leviticus 15:10 (id: 903015010)

10And any person who touches anything that was under him shall be unclean until the evening. And the one who lifts them shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe with water and he shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:11 (id: 903015011)

11And anyone who the flowing {person} touches him and he does not rinse his hands in water, then he shall wash his clothes and he shall bathe in water and he shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:12 (id: 903015012)

12And a container of clay that the flowing {person} touches shall be broken, and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed with water.


## Leviticus 15:13 (id: 903015013)

13And when the flowing {person} cleanses from his flow, then he shall count for himself seven days for his cleansing. And he shall wash his clothes and he shall bathe his body in living water. And he will be clean.


## Leviticus 15:14 (id: 903015014)

14And on the eighth day, he shall take for himself two doves or two sons of a pigeon and he shall come to the face of Yahweh at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And he shall give them to the priest.


## Leviticus 15:15 (id: 903015015)

15And the priest shall make them, one {as} a sin offering and one {as} a burnt offering. And the priest shall make atonement for him to the face of Yahweh from his flow.


## Leviticus 15:16 (id: 903015016)

16And a man, when a layer of seed goes out from him, then he shall bathe all his flesh with water. And he shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:17 (id: 903015017)

17And any clothing and any leather on which is a layer of seed—and it shall be washed in water. And it shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:18 (id: 903015018)

18And a woman with whom a man lies, a layer of seed, then they shall bathe with water and they shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:19 (id: 903015019)

19And a woman, when she is flowing—blood is her flow in her flesh—{for} seven days, she will be in her menstruation. And any person who touches her shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:20 (id: 903015020)

20And anything on which she lies in her menstruation shall be unclean. And anything on which she sits shall be unclean.


## Leviticus 15:21 (id: 903015021)

21And any person who touches her bed shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe with water. And he shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:22 (id: 903015022)

22And any person who touches any furniture on which she sits shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe with water. And he shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:23 (id: 903015023)

23But if it {is} on the bed or on furniture on which she is sitting, when he touches it, he shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:24 (id: 903015024)

24And if, laying, a man lies with her, and her menstruation is on him, then he shall be unclean {for} seven days, and every bed on which he lies shall be unclean.


## Leviticus 15:25 (id: 903015025)

25And a woman, when a flow of her blood flows {for} many days when {it is} not the time of her menstruation, or when she flows beyond her menstruation, all the days of the flow of her uncleanness shall be like the days of her menstruation. She {is} unclean.


## Leviticus 15:26 (id: 903015026)

26Every bed on which she lies all the days of her flow shall be to her like the bed of her menstruation. And any furniture on which she sits shall be unclean, like the uncleanness of her menstruation.


## Leviticus 15:27 (id: 903015027)

27And any person who touches them shall be unclean. And he shall wash his clothes and he shall bathe with water and he shall be unclean until the evening.


## Leviticus 15:28 (id: 903015028)

28But if she cleanses {herself} from her flow, then she shall count for herself seven days and, after, she shall be clean.


## Leviticus 15:29 (id: 903015029)

29And on the eighth day, she shall take for herself two doves or two sons of a pigeon and she shall bring them to the priest, to the entrance of the tent of meeting.


## Leviticus 15:30 (id: 903015030)

30And the priest shall make one {as} a sin offering and one {as} a burnt offering. And the priest shall make atonement for her to the face of Yahweh from the flow of her uncleanness.


## Leviticus 15:31 (id: 903015031)

31And you shall hold back the sons of Israel from their uncleanness, and they will not die by their uncleanness, by their defiling my Dwelling that {is} in their midst.


## Leviticus 15:32 (id: 903015032)

32This {is} the instruction of the flowing {person} and of him from whom a layer of seed goes out to become unclean by it


## Leviticus 15:33 (id: 903015033)

33and of {the woman} who is sick in her menstruation and of the flowing of his flow, whether male or female, and of the man who lies with an unclean {woman}.’”


## Leviticus 16:1 (id: 903016001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they presented {themselves} to the face of Yahweh and they died.


## Leviticus 16:2 (id: 903016002)

2And Yahweh said to Moses, “Speak to Aaron your brother, and he shall not enter at any time into the holy place from house to the curtain, to the face of the atonement lid that {is} on the Box, and he will not die. For I will appear in a cloud over the atonement lid.


## Leviticus 16:3 (id: 903016003)

3In this {way}, Aaron shall enter into the holy place: with a bull, a son of the cattle, as a sin offering, and a ram as a burnt offering.


## Leviticus 16:4 (id: 903016004)

4He shall wear a holy linen tunic, and the linen undergarments shall be on his flesh, and he shall tie the linen sash, and he shall wrap the linen turban. They are clothes of holiness. And he shall bathe his flesh in the water, and he shall wear them.


## Leviticus 16:5 (id: 903016005)

5And from the congregation of the sons of Israel, he shall take two bucks of goats as a sin offering and one ram as a burnt offering.


## Leviticus 16:6 (id: 903016006)

6And Aaron shall present the bull of the sin offering, which {is} for himself. And he shall make atonement on his behalf and on behalf of his house.


## Leviticus 16:7 (id: 903016007)

7And he shall take the two goats, and he shall make them stand to the face of Yahweh at the entrance of the tent of meeting.


## Leviticus 16:8 (id: 903016008)

8And Aaron shall give lots concerning the two goats—one lot to Yahweh, and one lot to Azazel.


## Leviticus 16:9 (id: 903016009)

9And Aaron shall present the goat on which the lot to Yahweh fell, and he shall make it a sin offering.


## Leviticus 16:10 (id: 903016010)

10But the goat on which the lot to Azazel fell shall be made to stand living to the face of Yahweh to make atonement on it by sending it away to Azazel, to the wilderness.


## Leviticus 16:11 (id: 903016011)

11And Aaron shall present the bull of the sin offering that {is} for himself. And he shall make atonement on his behalf and on behalf of his house. And he shall slaughter the bull of the sin offering that {is} for himself.


## Leviticus 16:12 (id: 903016012)

12And he shall take the fullness of a censer, coals of fire, from on the altar from before the face of Yahweh, and the fullness of his {two} hands, thin incense of spices, and he shall bring {them} from house to the curtain.


## Leviticus 16:13 (id: 903016013)

13And he shall give the incense on the fire to the face of Yahweh. And the cloud of the incense will cover the atonement lid that {is} over the {Box of the} Testimony, and he will not die.


## Leviticus 16:14 (id: 903016014)

14And he shall take some of the blood of the bull, and he shall sprinkle {it} with his finger on the face of the atonement lid to the east. And to the face of the atonement lid, he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times.


## Leviticus 16:15 (id: 903016015)

15And he shall slaughter the goat of the sin offering that {is} for the people, and he shall bring its blood to from house to the curtain. And he shall make its blood just as he did to the blood of the bull. And he shall sprinkle it on the atonement lid and to the face of the atonement lid.


## Leviticus 16:16 (id: 903016016)

16And he shall make atonement for the holy place from the uncleanness of the sons of Israel, and from their rebellion, to all their sins. And thus he shall do to the tent of meeting, the one dwelling with them in the midst of their uncleanness.


## Leviticus 16:17 (id: 903016017)

17And every man shall not be in the tent of meeting when he enters to make atonement in the holy place until his going out. And he shall make atonement on his behalf and on behalf of his house and on behalf of the whole congregation of Israel.


## Leviticus 16:18 (id: 903016018)

18And he shall go out to the altar that {is} to the face of Yahweh, and he shall make atonement for it. And he shall take some of the blood of the bull and some of the blood of the goat and give {it} on the horns of the altar all around.


## Leviticus 16:19 (id: 903016019)

19And he shall sprinkle some of the blood on it with his finger seven times. And he shall cleanse it and make it holy from the uncleanness of the sons of Israel.


## Leviticus 16:20 (id: 903016020)

20And he shall finish from making atonement {for} the holy place and the tent of meeting and the altar, and he shall present the living goat.


## Leviticus 16:21 (id: 903016021)

21And Aaron shall lay two of his hands on the head of the living goat, and he shall confess over it all the iniquity of the sons of Israel and all their rebellion, to all their sins. And he shall give them on the head of the goat, and he shall send {it} away by the hand of a timely man to the wilderness.


## Leviticus 16:22 (id: 903016022)

22And the goat shall lift on itself all their iniquity to an inaccessible land. And he shall send the goat away into the wilderness.


## Leviticus 16:23 (id: 903016023)

23And Aaron shall enter into the tent of meeting, and he shall remove the linen clothing that he wore when he entered into the holy place. And he shall place them there.


## Leviticus 16:24 (id: 903016024)

24And he shall bathe his flesh in the water in a holy place, and he shall wear his clothes. And he shall go out, and he shall make his burnt offering and the burnt offering of the people. And he shall make atonement on behalf of himself and on behalf of the people.


## Leviticus 16:25 (id: 903016025)

25And the fat of the sin offering he shall cause to become smoke on the altar.


## Leviticus 16:26 (id: 903016026)

26And the person sending away the goat to Azazel shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in the water. And after thus, he shall enter into the camp.


## Leviticus 16:27 (id: 903016027)

27And the bull of the sin offering and the goat of the sin offering, whose blood was brought to make atonement into the holy place, shall be brought out to {a place} outside of the camp. And they shall burn with fire their skins and their flesh and their dung.


## Leviticus 16:28 (id: 903016028)

28And the person burning them shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in the water. And after thus, he shall enter into the camp.


## Leviticus 16:29 (id: 903016029)

29And it will be for you an enduring statute: in the seventh month on the tenth day of the month, you shall humble your spirits, and you shall not do any work—the native\-born {person} and the sojourner who sojourns among you—


## Leviticus 16:30 (id: 903016030)

30for on this day, he will make atonement for you to cleanse you from all your sins; to the face of Yahweh, you will be clean.


## Leviticus 16:31 (id: 903016031)

31It {is} a sabbath of sabbaths for you, and you shall humble your spirits—an enduring statute.


## Leviticus 16:32 (id: 903016032)

32And the priest whom he anoints him and whom he fills his hand to be priest under his father shall make atonement. And he shall wear his linen clothes, the clothes of holiness.


## Leviticus 16:33 (id: 903016033)

33And he shall make atonement {for} the holy place of holiness, and he shall make atonement {for} the tent of meeting and the altar. And he shall make atonement for the priests and for all the people of the assembly.


## Leviticus 16:34 (id: 903016034)

34And this will be for you an enduring statute to make atonement for the sons of Israel from all their sins, once in the year.” And he did just as Yahweh commanded Moses.


## Leviticus 17:1 (id: 903017001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 17:2 (id: 903017002)

2“Speak to Aaron and to his sons and to all the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, ‘This {is} the thing that Yahweh commanded, saying,


## Leviticus 17:3 (id: 903017003)

3“A man, a man from the house of Israel who slaughters an ox or a lamb or a goat in the camp or who slaughters {it} outside of the camp,


## Leviticus 17:4 (id: 903017004)

4but to the entrance of the tent of meeting, he does not bring it to present an offering to Yahweh to the face of the Dwelling of Yahweh—blood will be reckoned to that man. He has shed blood, and that man shall be cut off from the midst of his people


## Leviticus 17:5 (id: 903017005)

5This is so that the sons of Israel will bring their sacrifices that they are sacrificing on the face of the field and bring them to Yahweh at the entrance of the tent of meeting, to the priest, and sacrifice the sacrifices of peace offerings to Yahweh with them.


## Leviticus 17:6 (id: 903017006)

6And the priest will sprinkle the blood on the altar of Yahweh at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And he will burn the fat for a sweet aroma for Yahweh.


## Leviticus 17:7 (id: 903017007)

7And they must no longer sacrifice their sacrifices to goat idols, whom they prostitute themselves after. This will be a permanent statute for them throughout their generations.’


## Leviticus 17:8 (id: 903017008)

8And you must say to them, ‘Any man from the house of Israel, or from the sojourners who sojourn among them, who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice


## Leviticus 17:9 (id: 903017009)

9and does not bring it to the entrance of the tent of meeting in order to offer it to Yahweh, that man must be cut off from his people.


## Leviticus 17:10 (id: 903017010)

10And any man from the house of Israel, or from the sojourners sojourning among them, who eats any blood, I will set my face against that person who eats the blood and I will cut him off from among his people.


## Leviticus 17:11 (id: 903017011)

11For the life of the flesh is in its blood, and I have given it to you on the altar to make atonement for your lives. For it is the blood with the life that atones.


## Leviticus 17:12 (id: 903017012)

12Therefore I said to the sons of Israel every person among you must not eat blood. And the sojourner who sojourns among you must not eat blood.


## Leviticus 17:13 (id: 903017013)

13And any man from the sons of Israel, or from the sojourners sojourning among them, who hunts a wild game animal or bird that may be eaten, must pour out its blood and cover it with dirt.


## Leviticus 17:14 (id: 903017014)

14For the life of all flesh is its blood, it is with its life. And I have said to the sons of Israel, “You must not eat the blood of any flesh. For the life of all flesh—it is its blood. All who eat it must be cut off.”


## Leviticus 17:15 (id: 903017015)

15And any person who eats an animal that has died or that has been torn by wild animals, among the native born or among the sojourners, he must wash his clothes and bathe in water, and he will be unclean until the evening. And he will be clean.


## Leviticus 17:16 (id: 903017016)

16And if he does not wash or his body he does not bathe, then he must carry his iniquity.’”


## Leviticus 18:1 (id: 903018001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 18:2 (id: 903018002)

2“Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, ‘I {am} Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 18:3 (id: 903018003)

3According to the work of the land of Egypt in which you dwelt, you shall not do. And according to the work of the land of Canaan to which I am bringing you, you shall not do. And you shall not walk in their statutes.


## Leviticus 18:4 (id: 903018004)

4My laws you must do, and my statutes you must keep, so that you walk in them. I am Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 18:5 (id: 903018005)

5And you must keep my statutes and my laws. The person who does them will live because of them. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 18:6 (id: 903018006)

6Any man must not come near to any relative of his body to uncover nakedness. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 18:7 (id: 903018007)

7The nakedness of your father and the nakedness of your mother you must not uncover. She is your mother, you must not uncover her nakedness.


## Leviticus 18:8 (id: 903018008)

8The nakedness of the wife of your father you must not uncover. It is the nakedness of your father.


## Leviticus 18:9 (id: 903018009)

9The nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father or the daughter of your mother, born at home or born outside, you must not uncover their nakedness.


## Leviticus 18:10 (id: 903018010)

10The nakedness of your son’s daughter or your daughter’s daughter, you must not uncover their nakedness, for they are your nakedness.


## Leviticus 18:11 (id: 903018011)

11The nakedness of your father’s wife’s daughter, the offspring of your father, she is your sister. You must not uncover her nakedness.


## Leviticus 18:12 (id: 903018012)

12The nakedness of your father’s sister you must not uncover. She is your father’s relative.


## Leviticus 18:13 (id: 903018013)

13The nakedness of your mother’s sister you must not uncover, because she is your mother’s relative.


## Leviticus 18:14 (id: 903018014)

14The nakedness of your father’s brother you must not uncover, to his wife you must not come near. She is your aunt.


## Leviticus 18:15 (id: 903018015)

15The nakedness of your daughter\-in\-law you must not uncover. She is your son’s wife. You must not uncover her nakedness.


## Leviticus 18:16 (id: 903018016)

16The nakedness of your brother’s wife you must not uncover. That is your brother’s nakedness.


## Leviticus 18:17 (id: 903018017)

17The nakedness of a woman and her daughter you must not uncover. Her son’s daughter or her daughter’s daughter you must not take to uncover her nakedness. They are relatives. It is wickedness.


## Leviticus 18:18 (id: 903018018)

18And a woman with her sister you must not take as a rival to uncover her nakedness in addition to her while she is alive.


## Leviticus 18:19 (id: 903018019)

19And you must not come near to a woman in the impurity of her uncleanness, to uncover her nakedness.


## Leviticus 18:20 (id: 903018020)

20And you must not give your emission of seed to your neighbor’s wife, to become unclean with her.


## Leviticus 18:21 (id: 903018021)

21And you must not give any of your children to cause to pass over to Molech. And you must not profane the name of your God. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 18:22 (id: 903018022)

22And you must not lie with a male as one lies with a woman. That is detestable.


## Leviticus 18:23 (id: 903018023)

23And with any animal you must not lie to become unclean by it. And a woman must not stand before the face of an animal to lie down with it. That is perversion.


## Leviticus 18:24 (id: 903018024)

24Do not make yourselves unclean in any of these ways, for in all these ways the nations that I will drive out from before your face have become unclean.


## Leviticus 18:25 (id: 903018025)

25And the land became unclean, so I punished its sin upon it. And the land vomited out its inhabitants.


## Leviticus 18:26 (id: 903018026)

26And you yourselves must keep my statutes and my laws. And you must not do any of these detestable things, neither the native\-born nor the sojourner who sojourns among you


## Leviticus 18:27 (id: 903018027)

27(for all these detestable things the men of the land have done, those who were before you, and the land has become unclean),


## Leviticus 18:28 (id: 903018028)

28so the land does not vomit you out after you have made it unclean, just as it vomited out the nation that was before you.


## Leviticus 18:29 (id: 903018029)

29Indeed, anyone who does any of these detestable things, the people who do such things will be cut off from among their people.


## Leviticus 18:30 (id: 903018030)

30And you must keep my obligation not to do any of the detestable customs which were done before you, and not make yourselves unclean by them. I am Yahweh your God.’”


## Leviticus 19:1 (id: 903019001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 19:2 (id: 903019002)

2“Speak to all the congregation of the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them, ‘You shall be holy, for I, Yahweh your God, {am} holy.


## Leviticus 19:3 (id: 903019003)

3A man, his mother and his father, you shall fear, and my sabbaths you shall keep. I {am} Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 19:4 (id: 903019004)

4You shall not turn to idols, and gods of cast metal you shall not make for yourselves. I {am} Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 19:5 (id: 903019005)

5And when you sacrifice a sacrifice of peace offerings to Yahweh, you must sacrifice it for your acceptance.


## Leviticus 19:6 (id: 903019006)

6On the day of your sacrifice it must be eaten, or on the next day, and what is left until the third day must be burned up in the fire.


## Leviticus 19:7 (id: 903019007)

7And if it is eaten at all on the third day, it is unclean meat. It will not be accepted.


## Leviticus 19:8 (id: 903019008)

8And the one who eats it must carry his iniquity because he has profaned the holy thing of Yahweh, and that person must be cut off from his people.


## Leviticus 19:9 (id: 903019009)

9And when you harvest the harvest of your land, you must not completely harvest the edge of your field, and you must not gather the gleaning of your harvest.


## Leviticus 19:10 (id: 903019010)

10And you must not glean your vineyard, and you must not gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard. You must leave them for the poor and for the sojourner. I am Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 19:11 (id: 903019011)

11You must not steal and you must not deceive and you must not lie, a man with his fellow citizen.


## Leviticus 19:12 (id: 903019012)

12And you must not swear by my name falsely and profane the name of your God. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 19:13 (id: 903019013)

13You must not oppress your neighbor and you must not rob. The wages of a hired worker must not stay all night with you until morning.


## Leviticus 19:14 (id: 903019014)

14You must not curse the deaf and you must not put a stumbling block before the face of the blind. And you must fear your God. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 19:15 (id: 903019015)

15You must not do injustice in judgment. You must not lift up the face of the poor, and you must not give preference to the face of the great. In justice you must judge your neighbor.


## Leviticus 19:16 (id: 903019016)

16You must not walk around as a slanderer among your people. You must not stand against the blood of your neighbor. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 19:17 (id: 903019017)

17You must not hate your brother in your heart. You must surely rebuke your fellow citizen and not incur sin because of him.


## Leviticus 19:18 (id: 903019018)

18You must not take vengeance and you must not hold a grudge against the sons of your people, and you must love your neighbor as yourself. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 19:19 (id: 903019019)

19You must keep my statutes. You must not breed together your livestock of two different kinds. Your field you must not sow with two different kinds of seed, and a garment of two different kinds of material you must not put on you.


## Leviticus 19:20 (id: 903019020)

20And if a man lies with a woman so there is emission of seed and she is a slave who is promised to a man, and she has not been ransomed at all or freedom has not been given to her, there must be punishment. They must not be put to death because she was not free.


## Leviticus 19:21 (id: 903019021)

21And he must bring his guilt offering to Yahweh to the entrance of the tent of meeting—a ram as a guilt offering.


## Leviticus 19:22 (id: 903019022)

22And the priest will make atonement for him with the ram for the guilt offering before the face of Yahweh, for the sin that he has sinned. And it will be forgiven him for his sin which he has sinned.


## Leviticus 19:23 (id: 903019023)

23And when you come into the land and have planted all kinds of trees for food, then you must regard its fruit as being uncircumcised in its foreskin. Three years it will be uncircumcised for you. It must not be eaten.


## Leviticus 19:24 (id: 903019024)

24And in the fourth year all of its fruit will be holy, offerings of praise to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 19:25 (id: 903019025)

25And in the fifth year you may eat its fruit, to increase its yield for you. I am Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 19:26 (id: 903019026)

26You must not eat anything with the blood. You must not practice divination, and you must not interpret signs.


## Leviticus 19:27 (id: 903019027)

27You must not round off the corners of your heads and you must not shave off the edge of your beard.


## Leviticus 19:28 (id: 903019028)

28And you must not make a cut on your body for the dead and you must not make on yourselves a mark of a tattoo. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 19:29 (id: 903019029)

29Do not profane your daughter by causing her to be a prostitute, and the land will not fall to prostitution and the land become full of wickedness.


## Leviticus 19:30 (id: 903019030)

30My sabbaths you must keep and my holy place you must fear. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 19:31 (id: 903019031)

31Do not turn to the necromancers or to the soothsayers. Do not seek to become unclean by them. I am Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 19:32 (id: 903019032)

32From the face of the gray\-haired person you must rise and you must show respect in the face of an old person. You must fear your God. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 19:33 (id: 903019033)

33And if a sojourner sojourns among you in your land, you must not oppress him.


## Leviticus 19:34 (id: 903019034)

34Like the native\-born among you must be to you the sojourner who sojourns with you. And you must love him as yourself, because you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 19:35 (id: 903019035)

35You must not do injustice in judgment, in measurement of length, in weight, or in quantity.


## Leviticus 19:36 (id: 903019036)

36Just scales, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin you must have. I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out from the land of Egypt.


## Leviticus 19:37 (id: 903019037)

37And you must keep all my statutes and all my laws, and you must do them. I am Yahweh.’”


## Leviticus 20:1 (id: 903020001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 20:2 (id: 903020002)

2“And to the sons of Israel, you shall say, ‘A man, a man from the sons of Israel or from the sojourner, the one sojourning in Israel, who gives from his seed to Molech—dying, he shall be executed. The people of the land shall stone him with the rock.


## Leviticus 20:3 (id: 903020003)

3And I also will set my face against that man and I will cut him off from among his people. For he has given his offspring to Molech, so as to make my holy place unclean and to profane my holy name.


## Leviticus 20:4 (id: 903020004)

4And if the people of the land cause their eyes to be hidden at all from that man when he gives his offspring to Molech, so as to not put him to death,


## Leviticus 20:5 (id: 903020005)

5then I myself will set my face against that man and his clan. And I will cut him off and all the ones who prostitute themselves after him, by prostituting themselves after Molech, from the midst of their people.


## Leviticus 20:6 (id: 903020006)

6And the person who turns to the necromancers or to the soothsayers so as to prostitute themselves after them, I will set my face against that person. And I will cut him off from among his people.


## Leviticus 20:7 (id: 903020007)

7So make yourselves holy and be holy ones, because I am Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 20:8 (id: 903020008)

8And you must keep my statutes and do them. I am Yahweh who makes you holy.


## Leviticus 20:9 (id: 903020009)

9If there is any man who curses his father or his mother, he must surely be put to death. He has cursed his father or his mother, his blood is on him.


## Leviticus 20:10 (id: 903020010)

10And if a man commits adultery with a man’s wife, that is, he commits adultery with his neighbor’s wife, the adulterer and the adulteress must certainly be put to death.


## Leviticus 20:11 (id: 903020011)

11And if a man lies with his father’s wife, he uncovers his father’s nakedness. Both of them must certainly be put to death. Their blood is on them.


## Leviticus 20:12 (id: 903020012)

12And if a man lies with his daughter\-in\-law, both of them must certainly be put to death. They have committed perversion; their blood is on them.


## Leviticus 20:13 (id: 903020013)

13And if a man lies with a male as one lies with a woman, both of them have done a detestable thing. They must surely be put to death; their blood is on them.


## Leviticus 20:14 (id: 903020014)

14And if a man takes a wife and her mother, this is wickedness. In the fire they must be burned, he and they, and there will not be wickedness among you.


## Leviticus 20:15 (id: 903020015)

15And if a man lies with an animal, he must surely be put to death, and you must kill the animal.


## Leviticus 20:16 (id: 903020016)

16And if a woman comes near to any animal to lie with it, then you must kill the woman and the animal. They must certainly be put to death; their blood is on them.


## Leviticus 20:17 (id: 903020017)

17And if a man takes his sister, a daughter of his father or a daughter of his mother, and he sees her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness, it is a shameful thing, and they must be cut off in the eyes of the sons of their people. He has uncovered the nakedness of his sister. He must bear his iniquity.


## Leviticus 20:18 (id: 903020018)

18And if a man lies with a menstruating woman and has uncovered her nakedness, he has exposed her flow and she has uncovered the flow of her blood. And both of them must be cut off from among their people.


## Leviticus 20:19 (id: 903020019)

19And the nakedness of your mother’s sister, or your father’s sister, you must not uncover because he would expose his relative. They must bear their iniquity.


## Leviticus 20:20 (id: 903020020)

20And if a man lies with his aunt, he has uncovered his uncle’s nakedness. They will bear their sin; they will die childless.


## Leviticus 20:21 (id: 903020021)

21And if a man takes his brother’s wife, that is disgraceful. He has uncovered the nakedness of his brother; they will be childless.


## Leviticus 20:22 (id: 903020022)

22And you must keep all my statutes and all my judgments, and you must do them, and the land which I am bringing you there to dwell in will not vomit you out.


## Leviticus 20:23 (id: 903020023)

23And you must not walk in the statutes of the nations that I will drive out from before your face. For they have done all these things, and I detest them.


## Leviticus 20:24 (id: 903020024)

24And I said to you, “You will possess their land and I will give it to you to possess it, a land flowing with milk and honey. I am Yahweh your God, who has separated you from the peoples.


## Leviticus 20:25 (id: 903020025)

25And you must distinguish between the clean animal and the unclean, and between the unclean bird and the clean. And you must not make yourselves detestable by an animal or by a bird or by anything that crawls on the ground, which I have separated from you as unclean.


## Leviticus 20:26 (id: 903020026)

26And you must be holy ones for me, because I, Yahweh, am holy, and I have separated you from the peoples to be mine.


## Leviticus 20:27 (id: 903020027)

27And if there is among them a man or woman necromancer or soothsayer, they must certainly be put to death. They must stone them with stones. Their blood is on them.’”


## Leviticus 21:1 (id: 903021001)

1And Yahweh said to Moses, “Say to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and you shall say to them, ‘For a {dead} person, he shall not make himself unclean among his people,


## Leviticus 21:2 (id: 903021002)

2except for his body, the one close to him—for his mother or for his father or for his son or for his daughter or for his brother


## Leviticus 21:3 (id: 903021003)

3or for his virgin sister, the one close to him, who does not have a husband—for her, he shall make himself unclean.


## Leviticus 21:4 (id: 903021004)

4He must not make himself unclean as a husband among his people, to profane himself.


## Leviticus 21:5 (id: 903021005)

5They must not shave a bald patch on their heads and they must not shave off the corner of their beard, and they must not cut a cut in their flesh.


## Leviticus 21:6 (id: 903021006)

6They must be holy ones to their God and they must not profane the name of their God. For they are offering Yahweh’s offerings made by fire, the bread of their God, so they must be holy.


## Leviticus 21:7 (id: 903021007)

7He must not take a woman who is a prostitute or profaned. And he must not take a woman divorced from her husband. For he is holy to his God.


## Leviticus 21:8 (id: 903021008)

8And you will make him holy, for he is the one who offers the bread of your God. He must be holy for you, because I, Yahweh who makes you holy, am holy.


## Leviticus 21:9 (id: 903021009)

9And a daughter of any priest who profanes herself by becoming a prostitute, she is profaning her father. In the fire she must be burned.


## Leviticus 21:10 (id: 903021010)

10And the great priest among his brothers, who has had the oil of anointing poured upon his head and has had his hand filled to wear the garments, he must not let his head be unbound and he must not tear his clothes.


## Leviticus 21:11 (id: 903021011)

11And he must not go near any dead person, for his father or for his mother. He must not make himself unclean.


## Leviticus 21:12 (id: 903021012)

12And he must not leave from the holy place and he must not profane the holy place of his God. For the dedication of the oil of the anointing of his God is upon him. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 21:13 (id: 903021013)

13And he must take a wife in her virginity.


## Leviticus 21:14 (id: 903021014)

14A widow, or a divorced woman, or a profaned prostitute—these he must not take. But rather, a virgin from his people he must take as a wife.


## Leviticus 21:15 (id: 903021015)

15And he will not profane his offspring among his people. For I am Yahweh who makes him holy.’”


## Leviticus 21:16 (id: 903021016)

16And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 21:17 (id: 903021017)

17“Speak to Aaron, saying, ‘A man from your offspring throughout their generations who has a defect in him must not come near to offer food to his God.


## Leviticus 21:18 (id: 903021018)

18For any man who has in him a defect must not come near: a man blind or lame or who has a slit nose or who is deformed,


## Leviticus 21:19 (id: 903021019)

19or a man who has a broken foot or a broken hand,


## Leviticus 21:20 (id: 903021020)

20or a hunchback, or a dwarf, or one with a defect in his eye or eczema or scabs or a crushed testicle.


## Leviticus 21:21 (id: 903021021)

21Any man who has in him a defect among the offspring of Aaron the priest must not approach to offer Yahweh’s offerings made by fire. A defect is in him. He must not approach to offer the bread of his God.


## Leviticus 21:22 (id: 903021022)

22The food of his God, some of the holiest holy things and some of the holy things, he may eat.


## Leviticus 21:23 (id: 903021023)

23However, he must not go into the curtain and he must not approach to the altar. For a defect is in him and he must not profane my holy place. For I am Yahweh who makes them holy.’”


## Leviticus 21:24 (id: 903021024)

24And Moses spoke to Aaron and to his sons and to all the sons of Israel.


## Leviticus 22:1 (id: 903022001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 22:2 (id: 903022002)

2“Speak to Aaron and to his sons, and they shall be separated from the holy things of the sons of Israel, which they {are} making holy to me, and they shall not profane the name of my holiness. I {am} Yahweh.


## Leviticus 22:3 (id: 903022003)

3Say to them, ‘To your generations, any man who draws near from all your seed to the holy things that the sons of Israel have made holy to Yahweh and his uncleanness {is} on him, that person shall be cut off from before my face. I {am} Yahweh.


## Leviticus 22:4 (id: 903022004)

4Any man from the seed of Aaron who is one with a skin disease or a fluid discharge, he must not eat of the holy things until he becomes clean. And the one who touches anything unclean of a corpse, or a man who has go out from him an emission of seed,


## Leviticus 22:5 (id: 903022005)

5or a man who touches any swarming thing that makes him unclean, or a person who makes him unclean, whatever his uncleanness—


## Leviticus 22:6 (id: 903022006)

6the person who touches it will be unclean until the evening. And he must not eat from the holy things, unless he has bathed his body in water.


## Leviticus 22:7 (id: 903022007)

7And when the sun has set, then he will be clean. And afterward he may eat from the holy things, because it is his food.


## Leviticus 22:8 (id: 903022008)

8He must not eat an animal found dead or killed by wild animals, to become unclean by it. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 22:9 (id: 903022009)

9And they must keep my obligations, and they will not bear sin because of it and die by it, because they profaned it. I am Yahweh who makes them holy.


## Leviticus 22:10 (id: 903022010)

10And any stranger may not eat the holy thing. A foreign guest of the priest or a hired worker may not eat the holy thing.


## Leviticus 22:11 (id: 903022011)

11And if a priest buys a person as property with his silver—he may eat it, and a descendant of his house, they may eat his food.


## Leviticus 22:12 (id: 903022012)

12And if a priest’s daughter becomes the wife of a stranger, she may not eat the contributions of the holy things.


## Leviticus 22:13 (id: 903022013)

13And if the daughter of a priest becomes a widow, or divorced, and there is no offspring for her, and she returns to her father’s house as in her youth, she may eat from the food of her father. And any stranger may not eat it.


## Leviticus 22:14 (id: 903022014)

14And if a man eats a holy thing by mistake, then he must add its fifth on it and give the holy thing to the priest.


## Leviticus 22:15 (id: 903022015)

15And they must not profane the holy things of the sons of Israel that they lifted up to Yahweh,


## Leviticus 22:16 (id: 903022016)

16and cause themselves to bear the guilt of the guilt offering by their eating their holy things. For I am Yahweh who makes them holy.’”


## Leviticus 22:17 (id: 903022017)

17And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 22:18 (id: 903022018)

18“Speak to Aaron and to his sons, and to all the sons of Israel, and say to them, ‘Any man from the house of Israel, or from the sojourners in Israel, who offers his offering, for any of their vows or for any of their freewill offerings, which they present to Yahweh as a burnt offering,


## Leviticus 22:19 (id: 903022019)

19for your acceptance, it must be a male without blemish from the cattle, from the sheep, or from the goats.


## Leviticus 22:20 (id: 903022020)

20Anything that has a blemish on it you must not offer, because it will not be acceptable for you.


## Leviticus 22:21 (id: 903022021)

21And when a man offers a sacrifice of peace offerings to Yahweh to fulfill a vow or as a freewill offering from the herd or from the flock, it must be unblemished to be accepted. There must not be any defect in it.


## Leviticus 22:22 (id: 903022022)

22The blind, or disabled, or maimed, or that have warts, or eczema, or scabs—these you must not offer to Yahweh. And you must not give from them an offering made by fire on the altar to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 22:23 (id: 903022023)

23An ox or a lamb that is deformed or stunted—it you may offer as a freewill offering, but for a vow it will not be accepted.


## Leviticus 22:24 (id: 903022024)

24One that is bruised, or crushed, or torn, or has cut testicles you must not offer to Yahweh, and in your land you must not do so.


## Leviticus 22:25 (id: 903022025)

25And from the hand of the son of a foreigner you must not offer the food of your God from any of these because their deformity is in them and a defect is in them. They will not be accepted for you.’”


## Leviticus 22:26 (id: 903022026)

26And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 22:27 (id: 903022027)

27“When an ox or a sheep or a goat is born, it must remain seven days with its mother. And from the eighth day and beyond, it may be accepted as an offering, an offering made by fire to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 22:28 (id: 903022028)

28And an ox or a sheep, it and its young you must not slaughter on the same day.


## Leviticus 22:29 (id: 903022029)

29And when you sacrifice a sacrifice of thanks to Yahweh, you must sacrifice it for your acceptance.


## Leviticus 22:30 (id: 903022030)

30On that day it must be eaten, you must not leave part of it until morning. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 22:31 (id: 903022031)

31And you must keep my commandments and you must do them. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 22:32 (id: 903022032)

32And you must not profane my holy name. I must be treated as holy in the midst of the sons of Israel. I am Yahweh who sets you apart,


## Leviticus 22:33 (id: 903022033)

33who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God: I am Yahweh.”


## Leviticus 23:1 (id: 903023001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 23:2 (id: 903023002)

2“Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them, ‘These are the appointed times of Yahweh, which you must proclaim as holy assemblies. They are my appointed times.


## Leviticus 23:3 (id: 903023003)

3Six days work will be done, and on the seventh day is a sabbath of solemn rest, a holy assembly. You must not do any work. It is a sabbath for Yahweh in all your dwellings.


## Leviticus 23:4 (id: 903023004)

4These are the appointed times of Yahweh, the holy assemblies, them which you must announce at their appointed times:


## Leviticus 23:5 (id: 903023005)

5In the first month, on day 14 of the month, between the evenings, is Yahweh’s Passover.


## Leviticus 23:6 (id: 903023006)

6And on day 15 of this month is the Festival of Unleavened Bread for Yahweh. Seven days you must eat unleavened bread.


## Leviticus 23:7 (id: 903023007)

7On the first day there will be a holy assembly for you. You must not do any work of labor.


## Leviticus 23:8 (id: 903023008)

8And you will offer an offering made by fire to Yahweh for seven days. On day seven is a holy assembly. You must not do any work of labor.’”


## Leviticus 23:9 (id: 903023009)

9And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 23:10 (id: 903023010)

10“Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When you have come into the land that I am giving to you, and you harvest its harvest, then you must bring a sheaf of the first of your harvest to the priest.


## Leviticus 23:11 (id: 903023011)

11And he will wave the sheaf before the face of Yahweh to be accepted for you. On the day after the sabbath the priest must wave it.


## Leviticus 23:12 (id: 903023012)

12And you must offer, on the day when you wave the sheaf, a male lamb, one year old, without blemish as a burnt offering to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 23:13 (id: 903023013)

13And its grain offering must be two\-tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil as an offering made by fire to Yahweh, a sweet aroma, and its drink offering, a fourth of a hin of wine.


## Leviticus 23:14 (id: 903023014)

14And bread, and roasted grain and fresh grain you must not eat until this very day, until your offering of the offering of your God. It is a permanent statute throughout your generations, in all your dwellings.


## Leviticus 23:15 (id: 903023015)

15And you will count for yourselves from the day after the sabbath—from the day of your bringing the sheaf of the wave offering—there will be seven full sabbaths.


## Leviticus 23:16 (id: 903023016)

16Until the day after the seventh sabbath you must count 50 days. And you must offer an offering of new grain to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 23:17 (id: 903023017)

17From your dwellings you must bring bread for a wave offering. They must be two loaves of two\-tenths of an ephah of fine flour. They must be baked with yeast as firstfruits to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 23:18 (id: 903023018)

18And you must offer with the bread seven male lambs without defects, sons of the year, and one bull, a son of the herd, and two rams. They must be a burnt offering to Yahweh, with their grain offering and their drink offerings, an offering made by fire, a sweet aroma for Yahweh.


## Leviticus 23:19 (id: 903023019)

19And you must offer one buck of the goats for a sin offering, and two male lambs, sons of the year, for a sacrifice of peace offerings.


## Leviticus 23:20 (id: 903023020)

20And the priest must wave them with the bread of the firstfruits wave offering before the face of Yahweh with the two lambs. They will be set apart to Yahweh for the priest.


## Leviticus 23:21 (id: 903023021)

21And you must make a proclamation on that very day. There will be a holy assembly for you. You must not do any work of labor. It is a permanent statute in all your dwellings throughout your generations.


## Leviticus 23:22 (id: 903023022)

22And when you harvest the harvest of your land, you must not finish the edge of your field as you harvest, and you must not gather the gleaning of your harvest. You must leave them for the poor and for the sojourner. I am Yahweh your God.’”


## Leviticus 23:23 (id: 903023023)

23And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 23:24 (id: 903023024)

24“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘In the seventh month, on day one of the month there will be for you a solemn rest, a memorial by trumpet blast, a holy assembly.


## Leviticus 23:25 (id: 903023025)

25You must not do any work of labor, and you must offer a sacrifice made by fire to Yahweh.’”


## Leviticus 23:26 (id: 903023026)

26And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 23:27 (id: 903023027)

27“Surely on day 10 of this seventh month it is the Day of Atonement. It will be a holy assembly for you, and you must humble yourselves and offer an offering made by fire to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 23:28 (id: 903023028)

28And you must not do any work on that very day because it is the Day of Atonement, to make atonement for yourselves before the face of Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 23:29 (id: 903023029)

29If there is any person who does not humble himself on that very day, then he must be cut off from his people.


## Leviticus 23:30 (id: 903023030)

30And any person who does any work on that very day, I will destroy that person from among his people.


## Leviticus 23:31 (id: 903023031)

31You must not do any work. It is a permanent statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings.


## Leviticus 23:32 (id: 903023032)

32It is a sabbath of solemn rest for you, and you must humble yourselves on day nine of the month in the evening. From evening until evening you are to observe your sabbath.”


## Leviticus 23:33 (id: 903023033)

33And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 23:34 (id: 903023034)

34“Speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘On day 15 of the seventh month this is the Festival of Huts for seven days to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 23:35 (id: 903023035)

35On the first day there must be a holy assembly. You must not do any work of labor.


## Leviticus 23:36 (id: 903023036)

36Seven days you must offer a sacrifice made by fire to Yahweh. On the eighth day there must be a holy assembly for you, and you must offer an offering made by fire to Yahweh. It is a solemn assembly. You must not do any work of labor.


## Leviticus 23:37 (id: 903023037)

37These are the appointed times of Yahweh, which you must proclaim as holy assemblies to offer a sacrifice made by fire to Yahweh, a burnt offering and a grain offering, sacrifices and drink offerings, each day’s matter on its day,


## Leviticus 23:38 (id: 903023038)

38apart from the sabbaths of Yahweh, and apart from your gifts, and apart from all your vows, and apart from all your freewill offerings that you give to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 23:39 (id: 903023039)

39Surely on day 15 of the seventh month when you have gathered the produce of the land, you must celebrate a festival of Yahweh for seven days, on the first day a solemn rest, and on the eighth day a solemn rest.


## Leviticus 23:40 (id: 903023040)

40And you must take for yourselves on the first day the fruit of the majestic trees, branches of palm trees, and branches of leafy trees, and willows of the stream. And you will rejoice before the face of Yahweh your God seven days.


## Leviticus 23:41 (id: 903023041)

41And you must celebrate it as a festival for Yahweh seven days in the year. It is a permanent statute throughout your generations in the seventh month you must celebrate it.


## Leviticus 23:42 (id: 903023042)

42In the huts you must live for seven days. All the native\-born in Israel must live in the huts,


## Leviticus 23:43 (id: 903023043)

43so that your generations may know that I made the sons of Israel live in the huts when I brought them from the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.’”


## Leviticus 23:44 (id: 903023044)

44And Moses announced the appointed times of Yahweh to the sons of Israel.


## Leviticus 24:1 (id: 903024001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 24:2 (id: 903024002)

2“Command the sons of Israel and they will bring to you pure beaten oil of the olive for the light, so the lamp may burn continually.


## Leviticus 24:3 (id: 903024003)

3Outside the curtain of the testimony in the tent of meeting, Aaron must keep it in order, from evening until morning, before the face of Yahweh continually. It is a permanent statute throughout your generations.


## Leviticus 24:4 (id: 903024004)

4On the pure gold lampstand he must keep the lamps in order before the face of Yahweh continually.


## Leviticus 24:5 (id: 903024005)

5And you must take fine flour and bake 12 cakes with it. There must be two\-tenths of an ephah in one cake.


## Leviticus 24:6 (id: 903024006)

6And you must set them in two rows, six in a row, on the pure gold table before the face of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 24:7 (id: 903024007)

7And you must put on the row pure incense and it will be a memorial portion for the bread, an offering made by fire to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 24:8 (id: 903024008)

8On the day of the sabbath, every sabbath, he must keep it in order before the face of Yahweh continually. It is from the sons of Israel as an eternal covenant.


## Leviticus 24:9 (id: 903024009)

9And it will be for Aaron and for his sons, and they must eat it in a holy place. For it is a holiest holy thing for him, from Yahweh’s offerings made by fire, a perpetual portion.”


## Leviticus 24:10 (id: 903024010)

10Now the son of an Israelite woman, who was also the son of an Egyptian man, went out in the midst of the sons of Israel. And the son of the Israelite woman and an Israelite man fought in the camp.


## Leviticus 24:11 (id: 903024011)

11And the son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name and cursed, and they brought him to Moses. (Now his mother’s name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.)


## Leviticus 24:12 (id: 903024012)

12And they caused him to remain in the guard\-post until it would be made clear to them what was in accordance with the mouth of Yahweh.


## Leviticus 24:13 (id: 903024013)

13And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 24:14 (id: 903024014)

14“Bring out the one who has cursed to the outside of the camp. And all the hearers must lay their hands on his head, and all the assembly must stone him.


## Leviticus 24:15 (id: 903024015)

15And speak to the sons of Israel, saying, ‘If any man curses his God, then he must bear his sin.


## Leviticus 24:16 (id: 903024016)

16And he who blasphemes the name of Yahweh must surely be put to death. All the assembly must certainly stone him, as the sojouner so the native\-born. When he blasphemes the Name, he must be put to death.


## Leviticus 24:17 (id: 903024017)

17And if a man strikes dead any human being, he must certainly be put to death.


## Leviticus 24:18 (id: 903024018)

18And he who strikes dead the life of an animal must repay it, life in place of life.


## Leviticus 24:19 (id: 903024019)

19And if a man gives an injury to his fellow citizen, as he has done so it will be done to him:


## Leviticus 24:20 (id: 903024020)

20fracture in place of fracture, eye in place of eye, tooth in place of tooth. As he gave an injury to a human, so it must be given to him.


## Leviticus 24:21 (id: 903024021)

21And he who strikes dead an animal must repay it. And he who strikes dead a human must be put to death.


## Leviticus 24:22 (id: 903024022)

22There must be one law for you, as the sojourner so will be the native\-born. For I am Yahweh your God.’”


## Leviticus 24:23 (id: 903024023)

23And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel, and they brought the one who had cursed to the outside of the camp. And they stoned him with stones, and the sons of Israel did as Yahweh had commanded Moses.


## Leviticus 25:1 (id: 903025001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai, saying,


## Leviticus 25:2 (id: 903025002)

2“Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘When you come to the land that I am giving to you, then the land must keep a sabbath, a sabbath for Yahweh.


## Leviticus 25:3 (id: 903025003)

3Six years you must plant your field, and six years you must prune your vineyard and gather its produce.


## Leviticus 25:4 (id: 903025004)

4And in the seventh year, there must be a sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a sabbath for Yahweh. You must not plant your field and you must not prune your vineyard.


## Leviticus 25:5 (id: 903025005)

5You must not harvest the second growth of your harvest and you must not gather the grapes of your unpruned vines. It will be a year of solemn rest for the land.


## Leviticus 25:6 (id: 903025006)

6And the sabbath of the land will be for you, as food for you, and for your male slave, and for your female slave, and for your hired servant, and for the foriegn resident who is sojourning with you,


## Leviticus 25:7 (id: 903025007)

7and for your livestock and for the wild animal that is in your land, all its yield will be for eating.


## Leviticus 25:8 (id: 903025008)

8And you must count for yourself seven sabbaths of years, seven times seven years, and there will be for you a period of seven sabbaths of years, 49 years.


## Leviticus 25:9 (id: 903025009)

9And you must cause the horn blast to be heard on the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month. On the Day of Atonement you must cause the horn to be heard throughout all your land.


## Leviticus 25:10 (id: 903025010)

10And you must set apart the year, year 50, and proclaim freedom in the land to all its inhabitants. It will be a jubilee for you and you must return a man to his property and you must return a man to his family.


## Leviticus 25:11 (id: 903025011)

11That year, year 50, will be a jubilee for you. You must not plant and not harvest its second growth and not harvest its unpruned vines.


## Leviticus 25:12 (id: 903025012)

12For it is a jubilee, it will be holy for you. You must eat its yield from the field.


## Leviticus 25:13 (id: 903025013)

13In this Year of Jubilee you must return a man to his property.


## Leviticus 25:14 (id: 903025014)

14And if you sell something sold to your fellow citizen or buy from the hand of your fellow citizen, a man must not oppress his brother.


## Leviticus 25:15 (id: 903025015)

15According to the number of years after the jubilee you must buy from your fellow citizen. According to the number of years of yield he must sell to you.


## Leviticus 25:16 (id: 903025016)

16According to the multitude of the years you must increase its purchase price, but according to the fewness of the years you must decrease its purchase price, because of the number of yields he is selling to you.


## Leviticus 25:17 (id: 903025017)

17And you must not oppress, a man his fellow citizen. And you must fear your God, for I am Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 25:18 (id: 903025018)

18And you must do my statutes, and my laws you must keep and do them. And you will dwell on the land securely.


## Leviticus 25:19 (id: 903025019)

19And the land will give its fruit, and you will eat to satisfaction and dwell securely on it.


## Leviticus 25:20 (id: 903025020)

20And if you say, “What will we eat in the seventh year? Look, we cannot plant and we cannot gather our yield.”


## Leviticus 25:21 (id: 903025021)

21Then I will command my blessing for you in the sixth year, and it will produce yield for three years.


## Leviticus 25:22 (id: 903025022)

22And you will plant in the eighth year and you will eat from the old yield until the ninth year, until its yield comes in you will eat the old.


## Leviticus 25:23 (id: 903025023)

23And the land must not be sold for perpetuity, for the land belongs to me. For you are sojourners and temporary residents with me.


## Leviticus 25:24 (id: 903025024)

24And in all the land of your possession you must give redemption for the land.


## Leviticus 25:25 (id: 903025025)

25If your brother becomes poor and sells some of his property, then his redeemer nearest to him may come and redeem the things sold of his brother.


## Leviticus 25:26 (id: 903025026)

26And if a man does not have a redeemer for it, but his hand produces and he finds enough for its redemption,


## Leviticus 25:27 (id: 903025027)

27then he may calculate the years of its sale and return the balance to the man whom he sold it to. And he may return to his property.


## Leviticus 25:28 (id: 903025028)

28And if his hand does not find enough to get it back for himself, then his sold things will remain in the hand of he who bought it until the Year of Jubilee. And it will go out in the Jubilee and he will return to his property.


## Leviticus 25:29 (id: 903025029)

29And if a man sells a residential house of a walled city, then his right of redemption will be until the completion of the year of its sale. It will be the days of his right of redemption.


## Leviticus 25:30 (id: 903025030)

30And if it is not redeemed for him up to the fulfilling of an entire year, then the house which is in the city which has its wall will belong in perpetuity to him who bought it and to his descendants. It will not go out in the Jubilee.


## Leviticus 25:31 (id: 903025031)

31And the houses of the villages that have no wall around them will be considered as the field of the land. There will be redemption for it, and in the Jubilee it will go out.


## Leviticus 25:32 (id: 903025032)

32As for the cities of the Levites, the houses of the cities of their possession, the right of redemption is permanent for the Levites.


## Leviticus 25:33 (id: 903025033)

33And whatever is from the Levites he may redeem, and a sold house or a city of his posession will go out in the Jubilee. For the houses of the cities of the Levites—it is their possession among the sons of Israel.


## Leviticus 25:34 (id: 903025034)

34And the field of the pastureland of their cities must not be sold because it is their permanent possession.


## Leviticus 25:35 (id: 903025035)

35And if your brother becomes poor and his hand is shaky with you, then you must support him as a sojourner or temporary resident and he will live with you.


## Leviticus 25:36 (id: 903025036)

36Do not take from him interest or usury, and you must fear your God and your brother may live with you.


## Leviticus 25:37 (id: 903025037)

37Your silver you must not give to him with interest and for profit you must not give your food.


## Leviticus 25:38 (id: 903025038)

38I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out from the land of Egypt to give to you the land of Canaan, to be your God.


## Leviticus 25:39 (id: 903025039)

39And if your brother with you becomes poor and is sold to you, you must not make him work the work of a slave.


## Leviticus 25:40 (id: 903025040)

40Like a hired worker, like a temporary resident, he must be with you. Until the Year of Jubilee he will serve with you.


## Leviticus 25:41 (id: 903025041)

41And he will go away from you, he and his sons with him, and he will return to his clan. And he will return to the possession of his fathers.


## Leviticus 25:42 (id: 903025042)

42For they are my servants, them which I brought out of the land of Egypt. They will not be sold in a slave sale.


## Leviticus 25:43 (id: 903025043)

43You must not rule over him with ruthlessness, and you must fear your God.


## Leviticus 25:44 (id: 903025044)

44As for your male slave and your female slave who you have for yourself, from the nations that surround you, from them you may acquire a male slave or a female slave.


## Leviticus 25:45 (id: 903025045)

45And also from the sons of the sojourners who are dwelling with you, from them you may acquire, and from their clans who are with you, who have given birth in your land—they may become your property.


## Leviticus 25:46 (id: 903025046)

46And you may bequeath them to your sons after you, to inherit as a possession, you may let them work permanently. But as for your brothers, the sons of Israel, a man with his brother, you must not rule over him with ruthlessness.


## Leviticus 25:47 (id: 903025047)

47And if the hand of a sojourner or a temporary resident with you has produced, and your brother with you becomes poor and is sold to a sojourner, a temporary resident with you, or to a descendant of a clan of a sojourner,


## Leviticus 25:48 (id: 903025048)

48after he has been sold, there will be redemption for him. One of his brothers may redeem him,


## Leviticus 25:49 (id: 903025049)

49or his uncle, or the son of his uncle may redeem him; or a relative of his flesh from his clan may redeem him. Or, if his hand has produced, then he may redeem himself.


## Leviticus 25:50 (id: 903025050)

50And he will calculate with his buyer from the year he was sold to him until the Year of Jubilee, and the silver of his sale must be according to the number of years; like the days of a hired worker it will be with him.


## Leviticus 25:51 (id: 903025051)

51If there are still many of the years, according to them he must pay back his redemption from the silver of his purchase.


## Leviticus 25:52 (id: 903025052)

52And if a few of the years until the Year of Jubilee are left, then he must calculate for him according to his years. He must pay back his redemption.


## Leviticus 25:53 (id: 903025053)

53Like a hired worker year by year he will be with him. He must not rule over him with ruthlessness in your eyes.


## Leviticus 25:54 (id: 903025054)

54And if he is not redeemed by these, then he must go out in the Year of Jubilee, he and his sons with him.


## Leviticus 25:55 (id: 903025055)

55For to me the sons of Israel are servants. They are my servants, them which I brought out of the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.’”


## Leviticus 26:1 (id: 903026001)

1“You must not make for yourselves idols. And a carved figure or a stone pillar you must not lift up for yourselves, and a stone sculpture you must not put in your land to bow down in front of it. For I am Yahweh your God.


## Leviticus 26:2 (id: 903026002)

2My sabbaths you must keep and my holy place you must fear. I am Yahweh.


## Leviticus 26:3 (id: 903026003)

3If you walk in my statutes and keep my commandments and do them,


## Leviticus 26:4 (id: 903026004)

4then I will give your rain in its season. And the land will give its yield, and the tree of the field will give its fruit.


## Leviticus 26:5 (id: 903026005)

5And your threshing season will reach the grape harvest, and the grape harvest will reach the planting season. And you will eat your bread to satisfaction and dwell securely in your land.


## Leviticus 26:6 (id: 903026006)

6And I will give peace in the land. And you will lie down and there will be nothing that makes one afraid. And I will remove the harmful animals from the land, and the sword will not pass through your land.


## Leviticus 26:7 (id: 903026007)

7And you will pursue those who are hostile to you, and they will fall before your face by the sword.


## Leviticus 26:8 (id: 903026008)

8And five from you will pursue a hundred, and a hundred from you will pursue ten thousand. And those who are hostile to you will fall before your face by the sword.


## Leviticus 26:9 (id: 903026009)

9And I will turn to you and make you fruitful and multiply you. And I will establish my covenant with you.


## Leviticus 26:10 (id: 903026010)

10And you will eat the old that has grown old and the old you will bring out from the face of the new.


## Leviticus 26:11 (id: 903026011)

11And I will put my holy place in the midst of you, and my spirit will not detest you.


## Leviticus 26:12 (id: 903026012)

12And I will walk in the midst of you and I will be your God, and you will be my people.


## Leviticus 26:13 (id: 903026013)

13I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out from the land of Egypt, from being their slaves. And I broke the bars of your yoke and made you to walk upright.


## Leviticus 26:14 (id: 903026014)

14And if you will not listen to me, and will not do all these commandments,


## Leviticus 26:15 (id: 903026015)

15and if you reject my statutes and if your spirit detests my laws, so as to not do all my commandments, so that you break my covenant—


## Leviticus 26:16 (id: 903026016)

16then surely I will do this to you: I will inflict terror on you, consumption and fever that destroys the eyes and drains away life. And you will sow your seed for nothing, because those who are hostile to you will eat it.


## Leviticus 26:17 (id: 903026017)

17And I will set my face against you, and you will be defeated in the face of those who are hostile to you. And those who hate you will rule over you; and you will flee, though there is not one who chases you.


## Leviticus 26:18 (id: 903026018)

18And if up to these you do not listen to me, then I will continue to discipline you seven times for your sins.


## Leviticus 26:19 (id: 903026019)

19And I will break the pride of your power. And I will make your sky like iron and your land like bronze.


## Leviticus 26:20 (id: 903026020)

20And your strength will be used up for nothing, because your land will not give its yield. And the tree of the land will not give its fruit.


## Leviticus 26:21 (id: 903026021)

21And if you walk against me in opposition and are not willing to listen to me, then I will add upon you a plague seven times, according to your sins.


## Leviticus 26:22 (id: 903026022)

22And I will send forth among you animals of the field, and they will make you childless, and destroy your livestock, and make you few in number. And your roads will become deserted.


## Leviticus 26:23 (id: 903026023)

23And if in spite of these things you do not accept my discpline and you walk against me in opposition,


## Leviticus 26:24 (id: 903026024)

24then I will also walk, I myself, against you in opposition. And I will strike you, even I myself, seven times because of your sins.


## Leviticus 26:25 (id: 903026025)

25And I will bring a sword upon you that will avenge with the vengeance of the covenant, and you will be gathered into your cities. And I will send a plague in the midst of you, and you will be given into the hand of the one who is hostile.


## Leviticus 26:26 (id: 903026026)

26When I break the staff of your bread, then ten women will bake your bread in one oven. And they will distribute your bread by weight, and you will eat but not be satisfied.


## Leviticus 26:27 (id: 903026027)

27And if in spite of this you do not listen to me, and you walk against me in opposition,


## Leviticus 26:28 (id: 903026028)

28then I will walk against you in the wrath of opposition. And I will discipline you, even I, seven times for your sins.


## Leviticus 26:29 (id: 903026029)

29And you will eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters you will eat.


## Leviticus 26:30 (id: 903026030)

30And I will destroy your high places, and cut down your incense altars, and put your corpses on the corpses of your idols, and I myself will abhor you.


## Leviticus 26:31 (id: 903026031)

31And I will lay your cities in ruins and make your holy places desolate. And I will not smell your sweet aromas.


## Leviticus 26:32 (id: 903026032)

32And I myself will make the land desolate, and those who are hostile to you who dwell in it will be shocked at it.


## Leviticus 26:33 (id: 903026033)

33And I will scatter you among the nations, and I will unsheathe a sword behind you. And your land will be desolate, and your cities will be ruined.


## Leviticus 26:34 (id: 903026034)

34Then the land will enjoy its sabbaths all the days of its desolation while you are in the land of those who are hostile to you. Then the land will rest and enjoy its sabbaths.


## Leviticus 26:35 (id: 903026035)

35All the days of its desolation it will rest what it did not rest on your sabbaths when you lived on it.


## Leviticus 26:36 (id: 903026036)

36As for the ones who are remaining among you, I will bring despair into their hearts in the land of those who are hostile to them, and the sound of a windblown leaf will chase them. And they will flee as one fleeing from a sword, and you will fall though there is not one who chases.


## Leviticus 26:37 (id: 903026037)

37And you will stumble, each over his brother, as from the face of a sword, though there is not one who chases. And you will have no power to stand to the face of those who are hostile to you.


## Leviticus 26:38 (id: 903026038)

38And you will perish among the nations, and the land of those who are hostile to you will devour you.


## Leviticus 26:39 (id: 903026039)

39And the ones who are remaining among you will rot in their iniquity, in the lands of those who are hostile to you. And also in the iniquities of their fathers they will rot with them.


## Leviticus 26:40 (id: 903026040)

40And if they confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers, in their unfaithfulness which they acted unfaithfully against me, and also that they walked against me in opposition—


## Leviticus 26:41 (id: 903026041)

41also I myself went against them in opposition and I brought them into the land of those who are hostile to them—if then their uncircumcised hearts become humbled, and then they pay for their iniquity,


## Leviticus 26:42 (id: 903026042)

42then I will remember my covenant with Jacob. And also my covenant with Isaac, and also my covenant with Abraham I will remember. And I will remember the land.


## Leviticus 26:43 (id: 903026043)

43And the land was abandoned by them, and it will rejoice with its sabbaths while being desolate without them. And they themselves will pay for their iniquity because they rejected my judgments and their spirit detested my statutes.


## Leviticus 26:44 (id: 903026044)

44And despite even this, when they are in the land of those who are hostile to them, I will not reject them, and I will not detest them so as to destroy them, to break my covenant with them. For I am Yahweh their God.


## Leviticus 26:45 (id: 903026045)

45And I will remember for their sake the covenant with their ancestors, them whom I brought out from the land of Egypt in the eyes of the nations, to be their God. I am Yahweh.”


## Leviticus 26:46 (id: 903026046)

46These are the statutes, and the judgments, and the instructions that Yahweh made between himself and between the sons of Israel at Mount Sinai by the hand of Moses.


## Leviticus 27:1 (id: 903027001)

1And Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying,


## Leviticus 27:2 (id: 903027002)

2“Speak to the sons of Israel and say to them, ‘If a man vows a vow according to your valuation of persons to Yahweh,


## Leviticus 27:3 (id: 903027003)

3then your valuation will be for a male from a son of 20 years and up to a son of 60 years and your valuation must be 50 shekels of silver, according to the shekel of the holy place.


## Leviticus 27:4 (id: 903027004)

4And if she is a female, then your valuation must be 30 shekels.


## Leviticus 27:5 (id: 903027005)

5And if from a son of five years and up to a son of 20 years, then your valuation for the male must be 20 shekels, and for the female ten shekels.


## Leviticus 27:6 (id: 903027006)

6And if from a son of a month and up to a son of five years, then your valuation for the male must be five shekels of silver, and for the female your valuation of three shekels of silver.


## Leviticus 27:7 (id: 903027007)

7And if from a son of 60 years and up, if a male, then your valuation must be 15 shekels, and for the female ten shekels.


## Leviticus 27:8 (id: 903027008)

8And if he is poorer than your valuation, then he must present himself to the face of the priest, and the priest will value him. According to what the hand of the one making the vow produces the priest will value him.


## Leviticus 27:9 (id: 903027009)

9And if it is an animal from which they offer an offering to Yahweh, all that he gives from them to Yahweh will be set apart.


## Leviticus 27:10 (id: 903027010)

10He must not replace it and he must not exchange it, a good one for a bad one or a bad for a good. And if he exchanges at all an animal for an animal, then it will be and the exchanged one will be set apart.


## Leviticus 27:11 (id: 903027011)

11And if any animal is unclean from which an offering must not be offered to Yahweh, then he must present the animal to the face of the priest.


## Leviticus 27:12 (id: 903027012)

12And the priest will set its value as either good or bad. According to the valuation of you, the priest, thus will it be.


## Leviticus 27:13 (id: 903027013)

13And if he ever redeems it, then he must add its fifth in addition to your valuation.


## Leviticus 27:14 (id: 903027014)

14And when a man sets apart his house as a holy thing to Yahweh, then the priest will set its value as either good or bad. As the priest values it, so it will stand.


## Leviticus 27:15 (id: 903027015)

15And if the one who set it apart redeems his house, then he must add a fifth of the silver of your valuation to it, and it will belong to him.


## Leviticus 27:16 (id: 903027016)

16And if a man sets apart part of the field of his property to Yahweh, then your valuation will be in proportion to its seed—a homer of barley seed for 50 shekels of silver.


## Leviticus 27:17 (id: 903027017)

17If he sets apart his field during the Year of Jubilee, according to your valuation it will stand.


## Leviticus 27:18 (id: 903027018)

18And if he sets apart his field after the Jubilee, then the priest must calculate for it the silver according to the years remaining until the Year of Jubilee, and it must be reduced from your valuation.


## Leviticus 27:19 (id: 903027019)

19And if he who set it apart ever redeems the field, then he must add a fifth of the silver of your valuation to it, and it will belong to him.


## Leviticus 27:20 (id: 903027020)

20And if he does not redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it cannot be redeemed again.


## Leviticus 27:21 (id: 903027021)

21And the field will be, when it goes out in the Jubilee, a holy thing to Yahweh, like the field that has been dedicated by ban. It will belong to the priest as his property.


## Leviticus 27:22 (id: 903027022)

22And if he sets apart to Yahweh a field of his acquisition that is not part of the field of his property,


## Leviticus 27:23 (id: 903027023)

23then the priest will calculate for him the amount of your valuation up to the Year of Jubilee, and the man must give your valuation on that day as a holy thing to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 27:24 (id: 903027024)

24In the Year of Jubilee, the field will return to whom he bought it from, to whom belongs the posession of the land.


## Leviticus 27:25 (id: 903027025)

25And all your valuations must be by the shekel of the holy place; 20 gerahs must be the shekel.


## Leviticus 27:26 (id: 903027026)

26Surely the firstborn which belongs as firstborn to Yahweh among animals, a man must not set it apart. Whether ox or sheep, it belongs to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 27:27 (id: 903027027)

27And if it is among the unclean animals, then he may buy it back according to your valuation, and he must add its fifth to it. And if it is not redeemed, then it will be sold at your valuation.


## Leviticus 27:28 (id: 903027028)

28Surely any dedicated thing that a man dedicates to Yahweh, from all that belongs to him, from human or animal, or from the field of his property, must not be sold and must not be redeemed. Every dedicated thing, it is the holiest holy thing to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 27:29 (id: 903027029)

29Every dedicated one who is dedicated from mankind must not be ransomed. He must surely be put to death.


## Leviticus 27:30 (id: 903027030)

30And all the tithe of the land, from the seed of the land and from the fruit of the tree, belongs to Yahweh. It is holy to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 27:31 (id: 903027031)

31And if a man ever redeems some of his tenth, he must add its fifth in addition to it.


## Leviticus 27:32 (id: 903027032)

32As for every tenth of the herd or the flock, anything that passes under the rod, the tenth must be set apart to Yahweh.


## Leviticus 27:33 (id: 903027033)

33He must not seek to distinguish between good and bad, and he must not exchange it. And if he exchanges it at all, then it will be and its substitute will be set apart. It must not be redeemed.’”


## Leviticus 27:34 (id: 903027034)

34These are the commandments that Yahweh commanded Moses for the sons of Israel at Mount Sinai.


