# unfoldingWord Literal

## License Information

**unfoldingWord Literal** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Literal Text_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## 1 Samuel 1:1 (id: 909001001)

1Now there was one man from the Ramathaim, the Zuphites, from the hill country of Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.


## 1 Samuel 1:2 (id: 909001002)

2And for him were two wives: the name of the first was Hannah and the name of the second was Peninnah. And it happened that for Peninnah were children, but for Hannah there were no children.


## 1 Samuel 1:3 (id: 909001003)

3And that man went up from his city from days to days to worship and to sacrifice to Yahweh of hosts in Shiloh. And the two of the sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests of Yahweh, were there.


## 1 Samuel 1:4 (id: 909001004)

4And it happened the day when Elkanah sacrificed that he gave portions to Peninnah his wife and to all her sons and her daughters.


## 1 Samuel 1:5 (id: 909001005)

5But to Hannah he would give one portion of two faces, for he loved Hannah. (Now Yahweh had shut her womb.)


## 1 Samuel 1:6 (id: 909001006)

6And her rival would provoke her, even with provocation in order to cause her to thunder, because Yahweh had shut up her womb.


## 1 Samuel 1:7 (id: 909001007)

7And thus it would be year by year, as often as she went up in the house of Yahweh, thus she would provoke her. And she would weep and would not eat.


## 1 Samuel 1:8 (id: 909001008)

8And Elkanah her husband would say to her, “Hannah, why do you weep? And why do you not eat? And why is your heart displeased? Am I not better to you than ten sons?”


## 1 Samuel 1:9 (id: 909001009)

9And Hannah got up after eating and after drinking in Shiloh. (Now Eli the priest was sitting upon the seat by the doorway to the temple of Yahweh.)


## 1 Samuel 1:10 (id: 909001010)

10And she was bitter of spirit, and she prayed to Yahweh and wept abundantly.


## 1 Samuel 1:11 (id: 909001011)

11And she vowed a vow and said, “Yahweh of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your female servant and remember me, and not forget your female servant, and give to your female servant a seed of men, then I will give him to Yahweh all the days of his life, and a razor will not go up on his head.”


## 1 Samuel 1:12 (id: 909001012)

12And it happened when she increased to pray before the face of Yahweh that Eli was watching her mouth.


## 1 Samuel 1:13 (id: 909001013)

13Now Hannah, she was speaking to her heart, only her lips were quivering and her voice was not heard. So Eli thought of her as drunk.


## 1 Samuel 1:14 (id: 909001014)

14And Eli said to her, “Until when will you make yourself drunk? Remove your wine from with you!”


## 1 Samuel 1:15 (id: 909001015)

15And Hannah answered and said, “No, my master, a woman difficult of spirit am I. And wine and intoxicating drink I have not drunk, but I have been pouring out my soul before the face of Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 1:16 (id: 909001016)

16Do not give your female servant to the face of a daughter of worthlessness. For I have been speaking from the abundance of my complaint and my provocation until now.”


## 1 Samuel 1:17 (id: 909001017)

17And Eli answered and said, “Go in peace. And may the God of Israel grant your request that you requested from with him.”


## 1 Samuel 1:18 (id: 909001018)

18And she said, “May your female servant find favor in your eyes.” And the woman went to her way and she ate. And her face was no longer against her.


## 1 Samuel 1:19 (id: 909001019)

19And they rose early in the morning and worshiped before the face of Yahweh. And they returned and came to their house in the Ramah. And Elkanah knew Hannah his wife and Yahweh remembered her.


## 1 Samuel 1:20 (id: 909001020)

20And it happened at the turning of the days that Hannah conceived and bore a son. And she called his name Samuel, for, “I requested him from Yahweh.”


## 1 Samuel 1:21 (id: 909001021)

21And the man Elkanah and all his house went up to sacrifice to Yahweh the sacrifice of the days and his vow.


## 1 Samuel 1:22 (id: 909001022)

22But Hannah did not go up. For she had said to her husband, “Until the boy is weaned, then I will bring him. And he will appear with the face of Yahweh and dwell there until eternity.”


## 1 Samuel 1:23 (id: 909001023)

23And Elkanah her husband said to her, “Do the good thing in your eyes. Stay until you have weaned him. Only, may Yahweh raise up his word.” And the woman stayed and nursed her son until she weaned him.


## 1 Samuel 1:24 (id: 909001024)

24And she brought him up with her when she had weaned him, with three bulls and one ephah of flour and a skin of wine. And she brought him to the house of Yahweh in Shiloh. (Now the boy was a boy.)


## 1 Samuel 1:25 (id: 909001025)

25And they slaughtered the bull. And they brought the boy to Eli.


## 1 Samuel 1:26 (id: 909001026)

26And she said, “Please, my master! As your spirit is alive, my master! I am the woman who was standing with you at here to pray to Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 1:27 (id: 909001027)

27For this boy I prayed and Yahweh gave to me my request which I had requested from with him.


## 1 Samuel 1:28 (id: 909001028)

28And also I have lent him to Yahweh all the days that he is lent to Yahweh.” And he worshiped Yahweh there.


## 1 Samuel 2:1 (id: 909002001)

1And Hannah prayed and said, “My heart exults in Yahweh. My horn is exalted in Yahweh. My mouth is wide against my enemies. For I rejoice in your salvation.


## 1 Samuel 2:2 (id: 909002002)

2There is no one holy like Yahweh. Indeed, there is no one besides you. And there is no rock like our God.


## 1 Samuel 2:3 (id: 909002003)

3Do not speak so much very proudly! Let arrogance go out from your mouth. For Yahweh is a God of knowledge. And by him actions are weighed.


## 1 Samuel 2:4 (id: 909002004)

4Mighty men are shattered of bow. But those who stumble gird on strength.


## 1 Samuel 2:5 (id: 909002005)

5The satisified ones hired themselves out for bread, but the hungry ones cease. Even the barren woman bears seven, but the woman of many sons languishes.


## 1 Samuel 2:6 (id: 909002006)

6Yahweh puts to death and brings to life, brings down to Sheol and brings up.


## 1 Samuel 2:7 (id: 909002007)

7Yahweh makes poor and makes rich, makes low, but also lifts up.


## 1 Samuel 2:8 (id: 909002008)

8Raising the lowly from the dust, he lifts up the needy from the trash heap to make sit with nobles and causes them to inherit the seat of honor. For the pillars of the earth are for Yahweh and he has set the world on them.


## 1 Samuel 2:9 (id: 909002009)

9He will keep the feet of his loyal ones, but the wicked ones will be silenced in the darkness. For not by strength does a man prevail.


## 1 Samuel 2:10 (id: 909002010)

10By Yahweh the ones who oppose him will be shattered. He makes thunder against him in the heavens. Yahweh will judge the ends of the earth. And he will give strength to his king and lift up the horn of his anointed one.”


## 1 Samuel 2:11 (id: 909002011)

11And Elkanah went to the Ramah, to his house. And the boy was serving Yahweh with the face of Eli the priest.


## 1 Samuel 2:12 (id: 909002012)

12Now the sons of Eli were sons of worthlessness. They did not know Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 2:13 (id: 909002013)

13And the custom of the priests with the people was: when any man was sacrificing a sacrifice, then the servant of the priest would come with a fork of three prongs in his hand as soon as the meat was boiling.


## 1 Samuel 2:14 (id: 909002014)

14And he would stick it into the pan, or into the kettle, or into the cauldron, or into the pot. All that the fork brought up the priest would take with him. Thus they did to all Israel, the ones who came there at Shiloh.


## 1 Samuel 2:15 (id: 909002015)

15Also, before they burned the fat, the servant of the priest would come, and he would say to the man who was sacrificing, “Give meat to roast for the priest. And he will not take boiled meat from you, but only living.”


## 1 Samuel 2:16 (id: 909002016)

16And the man would say to him, “Let them burn the fat completely as the day, then take for yourself what your self desires,” And he would say, “No, rather now you will give it; and if not, I will take it by force.”


## 1 Samuel 2:17 (id: 909002017)

17And the sin of the young men was very great with the face of Yahweh. For the men spurned the offering of Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 2:18 (id: 909002018)

18And Samuel was serving with the face of Yahweh, a boy girded with an ephod of linen.


## 1 Samuel 2:19 (id: 909002019)

19And his mother would make a small robe for him and she would bring it to him from days to days, when she came up with her husband to sacrifice the sacrifice of the days.


## 1 Samuel 2:20 (id: 909002020)

20And Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife and would say, “May Yahweh set seed from this woman for you in place of the request that he requested to Yahweh.” And they would go to his place.


## 1 Samuel 2:21 (id: 909002021)

21Because Yahweh visited Hannah, she conceived and bore three sons and two daughters. And the boy Samuel grew with Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 2:22 (id: 909002022)

22Now Eli was very old. And he heard all that his sons were doing to all Israel and that they were lying with the women who were serving at the opening of the Tent of Meeting.


## 1 Samuel 2:23 (id: 909002023)

23And he said to them, “Why do you do like these things that I am hearing, your evil things, from with all these people?


## 1 Samuel 2:24 (id: 909002024)

24No, my sons! For the report is not good that I am hearing the people of Yahweh passing on.


## 1 Samuel 2:25 (id: 909002025)

25If a man sins against a man, then God will mediate for him; but if a man sins against Yahweh, who will intercede for him?” And they would not listen to the voice of their father, for Yahweh desired to put them to death.


## 1 Samuel 2:26 (id: 909002026)

26Now the boy Samuel was going and growing, and good, both with Yahweh and also with men.


## 1 Samuel 2:27 (id: 909002027)

27And a man of God came to Eli and said to him, “Thus says Yahweh, ‘Did I clearly reveal myself to the house of your father, when they were in Egypt for the house of Pharaoh?


## 1 Samuel 2:28 (id: 909002028)

28And I chose him from all the tribes of Israel to be for me for a priest, to bring up on my altar, to burn incense, to carry an ephod before my face. And I gave to the house of your father all the offerings made by fire of the sons of Israel.


## 1 Samuel 2:29 (id: 909002029)

29Why do you kick at my sacrifice and at my offering that I commanded for the Dwelling, and honor your sons more than me by fattening yourselves from the first of every offering of Israel, of my people?’


## 1 Samuel 2:30 (id: 909002030)

30Therefore, this is the declaration of Yahweh the God of Israel: ‘I indeed said your house and the house of your father would walk about before my face until eternity.’ But now this is the declaration of Yahweh: ‘Far be it for me! For I will honor those who honor me, but those who despise me will be slighted.


## 1 Samuel 2:31 (id: 909002031)

31Behold, the days are coming when I will cut off your arm and the arm of the house of your father from there being an old man in your house.


## 1 Samuel 2:32 (id: 909002032)

32And you will see the distress of the Dwelling, in all that he will do good with Israel. And there will not be an old man in your house all the days.


## 1 Samuel 2:33 (id: 909002033)

33But I will not cut off a man from near my altar for you, to cause your eyes to fail and to cause your spirit to grieve. But all the increase of your house will die as men.


## 1 Samuel 2:34 (id: 909002034)

34And this is the sign for you that will come to the two of your sons, to Hophni and Phinehas: in one day the two of them will die.


## 1 Samuel 2:35 (id: 909002035)

35And I will raise up for myself a priest who is faithful. He will do just as is in my heart and in my self. And I will build for him a house that is faithful; and he will walk before the face of my anointed one all the days.


## 1 Samuel 2:36 (id: 909002036)

36And it will happen that all the ones who remain in your house will come to bow down to him for a payment of silver and a round loaf of bread. And he will say, “Please assign me to one of the priestly positions to eat a bit of bread.”’”


## 1 Samuel 3:1 (id: 909003001)

1Now the boy Samuel was serving Yahweh before the face of Eli. And the word of Yahweh was rare in those days; there was no widespread vision.


## 1 Samuel 3:2 (id: 909003002)

2And it happened in that day, that Eli was lying down in his place. And his eyes had begun to be dim; he was not able to see.


## 1 Samuel 3:3 (id: 909003003)

3And before the lamp of God had gone out Samuel was lying down in the temple of Yahweh, there where the Box of God was.


## 1 Samuel 3:4 (id: 909003004)

4And Yahweh called to Samuel. And he said, “Here I am.”


## 1 Samuel 3:5 (id: 909003005)

5And he ran to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called to me.” And he said, “I did not call. Go back, lie down.” And he went and lay down.


## 1 Samuel 3:6 (id: 909003006)

6And Yahweh did again call again, “Samuel.” And Samuel rose and went to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called to me.” And he said, “I did not call, my son. Go back, lie down.”


## 1 Samuel 3:7 (id: 909003007)

7(Now it was before Samuel knew Yahweh, and before the word of Yahweh had been revealed to him.)


## 1 Samuel 3:8 (id: 909003008)

8And Yahweh did again call Samuel at the third time. And he rose and went to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called to me.” And Eli understood that Yahweh was calling to the boy.


## 1 Samuel 3:9 (id: 909003009)

9And Eli said to Samuel, “Go, lie down. And it will happen that, if he calls to you, then you shall say, ‘Speak, Yahweh, for your servant is listening.’” And Samuel went and lay down in his place.


## 1 Samuel 3:10 (id: 909003010)

10And Yahweh came and stationed himself and called as time on time, “Samuel, Samuel.” And Samuel said, “Speak, for your servant is listening.”


## 1 Samuel 3:11 (id: 909003011)

11And Yahweh said to Samuel, “Behold, I am about to do a thing in Israel that everyone who hears it, the two of his ears will tingle.


## 1 Samuel 3:12 (id: 909003012)

12In that day I will raise against Eli all that I have spoken against his house, beginning and ending.


## 1 Samuel 3:13 (id: 909003013)

13And I have told him that I am about to judge his house until eternity because of the iniquity that he knew. For his sons were cursing against themselves and he did not rebuke them.


## 1 Samuel 3:14 (id: 909003014)

14And therefore, I have sworn to the house of Eli: The iniquity of the house of Eli will not be covered by sacrifice or by offering until eternity.”


## 1 Samuel 3:15 (id: 909003015)

15And Samuel lay down until the morning, and he opened the doors of the house of Yahweh. And Samuel was afraid of telling the vision to Eli.


## 1 Samuel 3:16 (id: 909003016)

16And Eli called Samuel and said, “Samuel, my son.” And he said, “Here I am.”


## 1 Samuel 3:17 (id: 909003017)

17And he said, “What is the word that he spoke to you? Do not hide it from me! Thus may God do to you and thus may he add, if you hide from me a word of all the word that he spoke to you.”


## 1 Samuel 3:18 (id: 909003018)

18And Samuel told him all the words, and did not hide it from him. And he said, “It is Yahweh. May he do the good in his eyes.”


## 1 Samuel 3:19 (id: 909003019)

19And Samuel grew. And Yahweh was with him and he did not cause any of his words to fall to the ground.


## 1 Samuel 3:20 (id: 909003020)

20And all Israel from Dan and as far as Beersheba knew that Samuel was faithful as a prophet of Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 3:21 (id: 909003021)

21And Yahweh continued to appear in Shiloh. For Yahweh revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 4:1 (id: 909004001)

1And the word of Samuel was to all Israel. And Israel went out to meet the Philistines for the battle. And they camped at Ebenezer and the Philistines camped at Aphek.


## 1 Samuel 4:2 (id: 909004002)

2And the Philistines lined up to meet Israel and the battle spread and Israel was defeated before the face of the Philistines. And they struck down about 4, 000 men in the battle line in the field.


## 1 Samuel 4:3 (id: 909004003)

3And the people came into the camp and the elders of Israel said, “Why did Yahweh strike us today before the face of the Philistines? Let us take for ourselves the Box of the Covenant of Yahweh from Shiloh. And it will come in our midst and it will save us from the palm of our enemies.”


## 1 Samuel 4:4 (id: 909004004)

4And the people sent to Shiloh and from there they lifted the Box of the Covenant of Yahweh of hosts, who sits on the cherubim. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the Box of the Covenant of God.


## 1 Samuel 4:5 (id: 909004005)

5And it happened as soon as the Box of the Covenant of Yahweh came into the camp, that all Israel shouted a great shout. And the earth resounded.


## 1 Samuel 4:6 (id: 909004006)

6And the Philistines heard the sound of the shout, and they said, “What is the sound of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews?” Then they knew that the Box of Yahweh had come into the camp.


## 1 Samuel 4:7 (id: 909004007)

7And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, “A god has come into the camp.” And they said, “Woe to us! For it was not like this yesterday and three days ago!


## 1 Samuel 4:8 (id: 909004008)

8Woe to us! Who will rescue us from the hand of these mighty gods? These are they: the gods who struck the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.


## 1 Samuel 4:9 (id: 909004009)

9Strengthen yourselves and become men, Philistines, lest you serve for the Hebrews, just as they have served for you. Now become men and fight!”


## 1 Samuel 4:10 (id: 909004010)

10And the Philistines fought, and Israel was struck and fled, a man to his tent, and it was a very great blow. And 30,000 foot soldiers from Israel fell.


## 1 Samuel 4:11 (id: 909004011)

11And the Box of God was taken. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died.


## 1 Samuel 4:12 (id: 909004012)

12And a man of Benjamin ran from the battle line and came to Shiloh on that day. And his clothing was torn and earth was on his head.


## 1 Samuel 4:13 (id: 909004013)

13And he came, and behold, Eli was sitting on the seat at the hand of the road watching because his heart was trembling concerning the Box of God. Now the man came to report in the city, and all the city cried out.


## 1 Samuel 4:14 (id: 909004014)

14And Eli heard the sound of the outcry, and he said, “What is the sound of this tumult?” And the man hurried and came and reported to Eli.


## 1 Samuel 4:15 (id: 909004015)

15Now Eli was a son of 98 years. And his eyes were set and he was not able to see.


## 1 Samuel 4:16 (id: 909004016)

16And the man said to Eli, “I am the one who has come from the battle line. As for me, I fled from the battle line today.” And he said, “What was the matter, my son?”


## 1 Samuel 4:17 (id: 909004017)

17And the one who brought news answered and said, “Israel fled before the face of the Philistines. And also, there has been a great blow among the people. And also, the two of your sons, Hophni and Phinehas, died, and the Box of God was taken.”


## 1 Samuel 4:18 (id: 909004018)

18And it happened, as soon as he mentioned the Box of God, that he fell backward from on the seat beside the hand of the gate. And his neck was broken and he died, because the man was old and heavy. And he had judged Israel 40 years.


## 1 Samuel 4:19 (id: 909004019)

19Now his daughter\-in\-law, the wife of Phinehas, was pregnant, about to give birth. And she heard the news about the Box of God being taken and that her father\-in\-law and her husband died. And she knelt down and gave birth, for her pains had turned on her.


## 1 Samuel 4:20 (id: 909004020)

20And about the time of her dying, the women who stood over her said, “Do not be afraid, for you have given birth to a son.” But she did not answer and did not put her heart.


## 1 Samuel 4:21 (id: 909004021)

21And she called the boy Ichabod, saying, “The glory has departed from Israel!” about the Box of God being taken, and about her father\-in\-law and her husband.


## 1 Samuel 4:22 (id: 909004022)

22And she said, “The glory has departed from Israel, because the Box of God has been taken.”


## 1 Samuel 5:1 (id: 909005001)

1Now the Philistines had taken the Box of God. And they brought it from Ebenezer to Ashdod.


## 1 Samuel 5:2 (id: 909005002)

2And the Philistines took the Box of God, and brought it to the house of Dagon. And they placed it beside Dagon.


## 1 Samuel 5:3 (id: 909005003)

3And the Ashdodites rose early on the next day, and behold, Dagon had fallen to his face to the ground before the face of the Box of Yahweh! And they took Dagon and returned him to his place.


## 1 Samuel 5:4 (id: 909005004)

4And they rose early in the morning on the next day, and behold, Dagon had fallen to his face to the ground before the face of the Box of Yahweh! And the head of Dagon and the two of the palms of his hands were cut off, on the threshhold. Only Dagon was left on him.


## 1 Samuel 5:5 (id: 909005005)

5Therefore, the priests of Dagon and all the ones who enter the house of Dagon do not tread on the threshhold of Dagon in Ashdod, until this day.


## 1 Samuel 5:6 (id: 909005006)

6And the hand of Yahweh was heavy on the Ashdodites and he devastated them. And he struck them with tumors, Ashdod and its territories.


## 1 Samuel 5:7 (id: 909005007)

7And the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, and they said, “The Box of the God of Israel should not stay with us because his hand is hard on us and on Dagon our god.”


## 1 Samuel 5:8 (id: 909005008)

8And they sent and gathered all of the rulers of the Philistines to them. And they said, “What should we do with the Box of the God of Israel?” And they said, “Let the Box of the God of Israel be brought around to Gath.” And they brought around the Box of the God of Israel.


## 1 Samuel 5:9 (id: 909005009)

9And it happened after they brought it around, that the hand of Yahweh was on the city, a very great tumult. And he struck the men of the city from small and as far as great. And tumors broke out to them.


## 1 Samuel 5:10 (id: 909005010)

10And they sent the Box of God to Ekron. And it happened as soon as the Box of God entered Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, “They have brought around to me the Box of the God of Israel to put me and my people to death!”


## 1 Samuel 5:11 (id: 909005011)

11And they sent and gathered all the rulers of the Philistines. And they said, “Send away the Box of the God of Israel, and let it return to its place, and it will not put me and my people to death.” For there was a tumult of death in all the city. The hand of God was very heavy there.


## 1 Samuel 5:12 (id: 909005012)

12And the men who did not die were struck with the tumors. And the cry of the city went up to the heavens.


## 1 Samuel 6:1 (id: 909006001)

1And the Box of Yahweh was in the field of the Philistines seven months.


## 1 Samuel 6:2 (id: 909006002)

2And the Philistines called to the priests and to the ones who practice divination, saying, “What should we do for the Box of Yahweh? Make known to us with what we should send it away to its place.”


## 1 Samuel 6:3 (id: 909006003)

3And they said, “If you are about to send away the Box of the God of Israel, do not send it away empty, but surely return to him a guilt offering. Then you will be healed, and it will be known to you why his hand has not turned aside from you.”


## 1 Samuel 6:4 (id: 909006004)

4And they said, “What is the guilt offering that we should return to him?” And they said, “Five tumors of gold and five mice of gold, from the number of the rulers of the Philistines, for one plague was for all of them and for your rulers.


## 1 Samuel 6:5 (id: 909006005)

5And you shall make images of your tumors and images of your mice, the ones destroying the land, and you shall give glory to the God of Israel. Perhaps he will lighten his hand from on you and from on your gods and from on your land.


## 1 Samuel 6:6 (id: 909006006)

6And why do you make heavy your heart, just as the Egyptians and Pharaoh made their heart heavy? When he dealt severely with them, did they not send them away and they went?


## 1 Samuel 6:7 (id: 909006007)

7So now, take and make one new cart with two nursing cows on which a yoke has not gone up. And tie the cows to the cart and return their sons from behind them to the house.


## 1 Samuel 6:8 (id: 909006008)

8And take the Box of Yahweh and put it into the cart, and set the objects of gold that you are returning to him as a guilt offering in the box by its side. And send it away and it will go.


## 1 Samuel 6:9 (id: 909006009)

9And look; if it goes up the way of its own territory, Beth Shemesh, he has done this great evil to us. But if not, then we will know that his hand did not strike us. It happened to us by chance.”


## 1 Samuel 6:10 (id: 909006010)

10And the men did thus, and they took two nursing cows, and tied them to the cart. But they shut up their sons in the house.


## 1 Samuel 6:11 (id: 909006011)

11And they set the Box of Yahweh into the cart with the box and the mice of gold and the images of their tumors.


## 1 Samuel 6:12 (id: 909006012)

12And the cows went straight in the way, on the road of Beth Shemesh. They went in one highway, going and lowing, and they did not turn aside right or left. And the rulers of the Philistines were going after them as far as the border of Beth Shemesh.


## 1 Samuel 6:13 (id: 909006013)

13Now Beth Shemesh was reaping the harvest of wheat in the valley. And they lifted up their eyes and saw the Box, and they rejoiced to see it.


## 1 Samuel 6:14 (id: 909006014)

14And the cart came into the field of Joshua the Bethshemite and stood there, and a large stone was there. And they split the wood pieces of the cart, and offered up the cows as a burnt up offering to Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 6:15 (id: 909006015)

15And the Levites brought down the Box of Yahweh and the box that was with it, in which was the objects of gold, and they set them on the large stone. And the men of Beth Shemesh offered up burnt up offerings and sacrificed sacrifices on that day to Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 6:16 (id: 909006016)

16And the five rulers of the Philistines saw and returned to Ekron on that day.


## 1 Samuel 6:17 (id: 909006017)

17And these are the tumors of gold which the Philistines returned as a guilt offering to Yahweh: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron.


## 1 Samuel 6:18 (id: 909006018)

18And the mice of gold were from the number of all the cities of the Philistines of the five rulers, from the cities of fortification and as far as the villages of the open country, and as far as the great Abel on which they rested the Box of Yahweh. It is in the field of Joshua the Bethshemite until this day.


## 1 Samuel 6:19 (id: 909006019)

19And he struck among the men of Beth Shemesh because they had looked in the Box of Yahweh. And he struck 50,070 men among the people. And the people mourned because Yahweh had stricken a great blow among the people.


## 1 Samuel 6:20 (id: 909006020)

20And the men of Beth Shemesh said, “Who is able to stand before the face of Yahweh, this holy God? And to whom will he go up from on us?”


## 1 Samuel 6:21 (id: 909006021)

21And they sent messengers to those dwelling in Kiriath Jearim, saying, “The Philistines have returned the Box of Yahweh; come down and bring it up to you.”


## 1 Samuel 7:1 (id: 909007001)

1And the men of Kiriath Jearim came and lifted up the Box of Yahweh, and brought it into the house of Abinadab on the hill. And they consecrated Eleazar his son to keep the Box of Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 7:2 (id: 909007002)

2And it happened from the day of the dwelling of the Box in Kiriath Jearim, that the days were numerous, and they were 20 years. And all the house of Israel lamented after Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 7:3 (id: 909007003)

3And Samuel said to all the house of Israel, saying “If you are going to return to Yahweh with all your heart, remove the gods of the foreigner and the Ashtoreths from your midst. And make firm your heart to Yahweh, and serve him alone, then he will rescue you from the hand of the Philistines.”


## 1 Samuel 7:4 (id: 909007004)

4And the sons of Israel removed the Baals and the Ashtoreths. And they served Yahweh alone.


## 1 Samuel 7:5 (id: 909007005)

5And Samuel said, “Gather all Israel to the Mizpah. And I will pray for you to Yahweh.”


## 1 Samuel 7:6 (id: 909007006)

6And they gathered at the Mizpah, and drew water and poured it out before the face of Yahweh. And they fasted on that day and said there, “We have sinned against Yahweh.” And Samuel judged the sons of Israel in the Mizpah.


## 1 Samuel 7:7 (id: 909007007)

7And the Philistines heard that the sons of Israel had gathered at the Mizpah, and the rulers of the Philistines went up against Israel. And the sons of Israel heard, and they were afraid because of the face of the Philistines.


## 1 Samuel 7:8 (id: 909007008)

8And the sons of Israel said to Samuel, “Do not be silent from us, from crying out to Yahweh our God! And may he save us from the hand of the Philistines.”


## 1 Samuel 7:9 (id: 909007009)

9And Samuel took one lamb of milk and he offered it up, a whole burnt up offering to Yahweh. And Samuel cried out to Yahweh for Israel, and Yahweh answered him.


## 1 Samuel 7:10 (id: 909007010)

10(Now Samuel was offering up the burnt up offering, and the Philistines approached for the battle with Israel.) And Yahweh thundered with a great sound on that day against the Philistines and confused them, and they were struck before the face of Israel.


## 1 Samuel 7:11 (id: 909007011)

11And the men of Israel went out from the Mizpah, and they pursued the Philistines and struck them down as far as below Beth Kar.


## 1 Samuel 7:12 (id: 909007012)

12And Samuel took one stone and set it between the Mizpah and the Shen. And he called its name Ebenezer, and he said, “As far as here Yahweh has helped us.”


## 1 Samuel 7:13 (id: 909007013)

13And the Philistines were subdued and did not do again to enter the border of Israel. And the hand of Yahweh was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.


## 1 Samuel 7:14 (id: 909007014)

14And the cities that the Philistines had taken from with Israel were returned to Israel, from Ekron and as far as Gath. And Israel rescued their territory from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.


## 1 Samuel 7:15 (id: 909007015)

15And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.


## 1 Samuel 7:16 (id: 909007016)

16And he went as often as year by year and went around Bethel, and the Gilgal, and the Mizpah. And he judged Israel, all these places.


## 1 Samuel 7:17 (id: 909007017)

17And his returning place was the Ramah, because his house was there; and there he judged Israel. And he built an altar there to Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 8:1 (id: 909008001)

1And it happened when Samuel was old, that he appointed his sons judges of Israel.


## 1 Samuel 8:2 (id: 909008002)

2And the name of his firstborn son was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judges in Beersheba.


## 1 Samuel 8:3 (id: 909008003)

3But his sons did not walk in his ways, and they reached out after dishonest gain. And they took a bribe and perverted justice.


## 1 Samuel 8:4 (id: 909008004)

4And all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at the Ramah.


## 1 Samuel 8:5 (id: 909008005)

5And they said to him, “Behold, you are old, and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now appoint for us a king to judge us like all the nations.”


## 1 Samuel 8:6 (id: 909008006)

6And the matter was evil in the eyes of Samuel when they said, “Give to us a king to judge us.” And Samuel prayed to Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 8:7 (id: 909008007)

7And Yahweh said to Samuel, “Listen to the voice of the people according to all that they say to you. For they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from reigning over them.


## 1 Samuel 8:8 (id: 909008008)

8Like all the deeds that they have done from the day I brought them up from Egypt and until this day, they have forsaken me and served other gods. So they are doing also to you.


## 1 Samuel 8:9 (id: 909008009)

9And now, listen to their voice. However, solemnly warn them and tell them the custom of the king who will rule over them.”


## 1 Samuel 8:10 (id: 909008010)

10And Samuel said all the words of Yahweh to the people who were requesting a king from him.


## 1 Samuel 8:11 (id: 909008011)

11And he said, “This will be the custom of the king who will reign over you: he will take your sons and appoint them for himself in his chariots and among his horsemen, and they will run before the face of his chariot;


## 1 Samuel 8:12 (id: 909008012)

12and appoint for himself commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties, and to plow his plowing, and to harvest his harvest, and to make the implements of his warfare and the implements of his chariot.


## 1 Samuel 8:13 (id: 909008013)

13And he will take your daughters for perfumers and for cooks and for bakers.


## 1 Samuel 8:14 (id: 909008014)

14And your fields and your vineyards and your olive orchards, the good ones, he will take and give to his servants.


## 1 Samuel 8:15 (id: 909008015)

15And he will take a tenth of your seeds and your vineyards, and give to his officials and to his servants.


## 1 Samuel 8:16 (id: 909008016)

16And your male servants and your female servants and your young men, the good ones, and your donkeys he will take and make for his work.


## 1 Samuel 8:17 (id: 909008017)

17He will take a tenth of your flock. And you yourselves will be for him for servants.


## 1 Samuel 8:18 (id: 909008018)

18And on that day you will cry out from before the face of your king whom you have chosen for yourselves. But Yahweh will not answer you on that day.”


## 1 Samuel 8:19 (id: 909008019)

19And the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel. And they said, “No! But a king will be over us.


## 1 Samuel 8:20 (id: 909008020)

20And we also, we will be like all the nations. And our king will judge us and go out before our face and fight our battles.”


## 1 Samuel 8:21 (id: 909008021)

21And Samuel heard all the words of the people. And he spoke them in the ears of Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 8:22 (id: 909008022)

22And Yahweh said to Samuel, “Listen to their voice and cause a king to reign for them.” And Samuel said to the men of Israel, “Go, a man to his city.”


## 1 Samuel 9:1 (id: 909009001)

1And there was a man from Benjamin and his name was Kish the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bekorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a man of a Yaminite, a mighty one of strength.


## 1 Samuel 9:2 (id: 909009002)

2And for him was a son and his name was Saul, a young man and good. And there was no man from the sons of Israel better than him. From his shoulder and upward he was taller than all the people.


## 1 Samuel 9:3 (id: 909009003)

3Now the female donkeys of Kish, the father of Saul, were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son, “Take now one from the servants with you, and rise, go seek the female donkeys.”


## 1 Samuel 9:4 (id: 909009004)

4And he passed through the hill country of Ephraim and passed through the land of Shalishah, but they did not find them. And they passed through the land of Shaalim, but there was nothing. And he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they did not find them.


## 1 Samuel 9:5 (id: 909009005)

5They themselves entered in the land of Zuph, and Saul said to his servant who was with him, “Come, let us return, lest my father cease about the female donkeys and worry about us.”


## 1 Samuel 9:6 (id: 909009006)

6And he said to him, “Behold, please, a man of God is in this city, and the man is honored; all that he speaks certainly comes. Let us go there now. Perhaps he will tell us our way on which we have gone.”


## 1 Samuel 9:7 (id: 909009007)

7And Saul said to his servant, “Now behold, we will go, but what will we bring to the man? For the bread is gone from our vessels and there is no gift to bring to the man of God. What is with us?”


## 1 Samuel 9:8 (id: 909009008)

8And the servant added to answer Saul, and he said, “Behold, one\-fourth of a shekel of silver has been found in my hand. And I will give it to the man of God and he will tell us our way.”


## 1 Samuel 9:9 (id: 909009009)

9(Before in Israel, a man said thus when he went to seek God, “Come and let us go to the seer.” For the prophet today was called the seer before.)


## 1 Samuel 9:10 (id: 909009010)

10And Saul said to his servant, “Your word is good. Come, let us go.” And they went to the city there where the man of God was.


## 1 Samuel 9:11 (id: 909009011)

11They were going up on the ascent to the city, and they themselves found young women going out to draw water. And they said to them, “Is the seer in this place?”


## 1 Samuel 9:12 (id: 909009012)

12And they answered them, and said, “There is, behold, before your face. Hurry now, for today he has come to the city, because the sacrifice of the day is for the people at the high place.


## 1 Samuel 9:13 (id: 909009013)

13As soon as you enter the city then you will find him, before he goes up to the high place to eat. For the people will not eat until he comes, because he himself will bless the sacrifice; afterwards the ones who are called will eat. So now go up, for, as for him, you will find him as soon as today.”


## 1 Samuel 9:14 (id: 909009014)

14And they went up to the city. They were entering in the midst of the city, and behold, Samuel was going out to meet them to go up to the high place.


## 1 Samuel 9:15 (id: 909009015)

15Now Yahweh had uncovered the ear of Samuel one day before the coming of Saul, saying:


## 1 Samuel 9:16 (id: 909009016)

16“About this time tomorrow I will send to you a man from the land of Benjamin, and you shall anoint him to be ruler over my people Israel. And he will save my people from the hand of the Philistines. For I have seen my people, for its cry has come to me.”


## 1 Samuel 9:17 (id: 909009017)

17And Samuel saw Saul, and Yahweh answered him, “Behold, the man whom I said to you! This one will restrain my people.”


## 1 Samuel 9:18 (id: 909009018)

18And Saul approached Samuel in the midst of the gate. And he said, “Please tell me, where is the house of the seer?”


## 1 Samuel 9:19 (id: 909009019)

19And Samuel answered Saul and said, “I am the seer. Go up before my face to the high place, and you will eat with me today. And I will send you away in the morning, and I will tell you all that is in your heart.


## 1 Samuel 9:20 (id: 909009020)

20As for your female donkeys that were lost three days ago, do not set your heart to them, for they have been found. Now for whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not for you and for all the house of your father?”


## 1 Samuel 9:21 (id: 909009021)

21And Saul answered and said, “Am I not a Benjamite, from the smallest of the tribes of Israel, and my clan the least from all the clans of the tribe of Benjamin? Yet why have you spoken to me like this word?”


## 1 Samuel 9:22 (id: 909009022)

22And Samuel took Saul and his servant and brought them to the room. And he gave to them a place at the head of the ones who had been called. (Now they were about 30 men.)


## 1 Samuel 9:23 (id: 909009023)

23And Samuel said to the cook, “Give the portion which I gave to you, of which I said to you, ‘Set it with you.’”


## 1 Samuel 9:24 (id: 909009024)

24And the cook lifted the thigh and what was on it and set it before the face of Saul. And he said, “Behold, what has been left over is set before your face. Eat, because it has been kept for you for the appointed time, saying, ‘I have called the people.’” And Saul ate with Samuel on that day.


## 1 Samuel 9:25 (id: 909009025)

25And they came down from the high place to the city. And he spoke with Saul on the roof.


## 1 Samuel 9:26 (id: 909009026)

26And they rose early. And it happened as soon as the dawn went up that Samuel called to Saul on the roof, saying, “Get up and I will send you away.” And Saul got up, and the two of them went out, he and Samuel, to the outside.


## 1 Samuel 9:27 (id: 909009027)

27They were going down to the end of the city, and Samuel said to Saul, “Speak to the servant so he may pass on before our face,”and he passed on. “But you stand now, and I will cause you to hear the word of God.”


## 1 Samuel 10:1 (id: 909010001)

1And Samuel took a flask of oil, and poured it on his head, and kissed him. And he said, “Is it not Yahweh who has anointed you to be ruler over his inheritance?


## 1 Samuel 10:2 (id: 909010002)

2When you go today from with me, then you will find two men near the tomb of Rachel in the territory of Benjamin in Zelzah. And they will say to you, ‘The female donkeys that you went to seek have been found. And behold, your father has stopped the matter of the female donkeys and is worried about you, saying, “What should I do about my son?”’


## 1 Samuel 10:3 (id: 909010003)

3And you will go on from there and further, and you will come as far as the oak of Tabor. And you will find three men there going up to God at Bethel, one carrying three young goats, and one carrying three round loaves of bread, and one carrying a skin of wine.


## 1 Samuel 10:4 (id: 909010004)

4And they will ask about you with respect to well\-being and give to you two bread loaves, and you will take from their hand.


## 1 Samuel 10:5 (id: 909010005)

5Afterward you will come to the hill of God, there where the garrisons of the Philistines are. And it will happen as soon as you come there to the city, that you will meet a group of prophets going down from the high place. And before their face will be a harp and a tambourine and a flute and a lyre. And they will be prophesying.


## 1 Samuel 10:6 (id: 909010006)

6And the spirit of Yahweh will rush on you, and you will prophesy with them. And you will be changed into another man.


## 1 Samuel 10:7 (id: 909010007)

7And it will happen that when these signs come to you, do for yourself what your hand finds, for God is with you.


## 1 Samuel 10:8 (id: 909010008)

8And go down before my face to the Gilgal. And behold, I will come down to you to offer up burnt up offerings, to sacrifice sacrifices of peace offerings. Wait seven days until my coming to you and I will make known to you what you shall do.”


## 1 Samuel 10:9 (id: 909010009)

9And it happened as soon as he turned his shoulder to go from with Samuel, that God turned for him another heart. And all these signs came on that day.


## 1 Samuel 10:10 (id: 909010010)

10And they came there to the hill, and behold, a group of prophets met him. And the spirit of God rushed on him and he prophesied in their midst.


## 1 Samuel 10:11 (id: 909010011)

11And it happened that every one who knew him from yesterday and three days ago saw, and behold, he prophesied with the prophets! And the people said, a man to his neighbor, “What is this that has happened to the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?”


## 1 Samuel 10:12 (id: 909010012)

12And a man from there answered and said, “And who is their father?” Therefore, it became a proverb, “Is Saul also among the prophets?”


## 1 Samuel 10:13 (id: 909010013)

13And he finished from prophesying, and he came to the high place.


## 1 Samuel 10:14 (id: 909010014)

14And the uncle of Saul said to him and to his servant, “Where did you go?” And he said, “To seek the female donkeys. And we saw that there was nothing, and we went to Samuel.”


## 1 Samuel 10:15 (id: 909010015)

15And the uncle of Saul said, “Please tell me what Samuel said to you.”


## 1 Samuel 10:16 (id: 909010016)

16And Saul said to his uncle, “He told us indeed that the female donkeys had been found.” But he did not tell him the word of the kingship, which Samuel had said.


## 1 Samuel 10:17 (id: 909010017)

17And Samuel called together the people to Yahweh at the Mizpah.


## 1 Samuel 10:18 (id: 909010018)

18And he said to the sons of Israel, “Thus says Yahweh, the God of Israel: ‘I myself brought up Israel from Egypt. And I rescued you from the hand of the Egyptians, and from the hand of all the kingdoms that oppressed you.’


## 1 Samuel 10:19 (id: 909010019)

19But you today have rejected your God, him who saves you from all your calamities and your distresses. And you have said to him, ‘Rather set a king over us.’ And now station yourselves before the face of Yahweh according to your tribes and according to your thousands.”


## 1 Samuel 10:20 (id: 909010020)

20And Samuel brought near all the tribes of Israel. And the tribe of Benjamin was taken.


## 1 Samuel 10:21 (id: 909010021)

21And he brought near the tribe of Benjamin according to its clans, and the clan of the Matrites was taken. And Saul the son of Kish was taken and they sought him, but he was not found.


## 1 Samuel 10:22 (id: 909010022)

22And they asked of Yahweh again, “Has a man come here yet?” And Yahweh said, “Behold, he has hidden himself with the things.”


## 1 Samuel 10:23 (id: 909010023)

23And they ran and took him from there. And he stationed himself in the midst of the people. And he was taller than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.


## 1 Samuel 10:24 (id: 909010024)

24And Samuel said to all the people, “Do you see him whom Yahweh has chosen? Indeed there is no one like him among all the people!” And all the people saw and said, “May the king live!”


## 1 Samuel 10:25 (id: 909010025)

25And Samuel spoke to the people the ordinance of the kingship, and he wrote it in the book, and rested it before the face of Yahweh. And Samuel sent away all the people, a man to his house.


## 1 Samuel 10:26 (id: 909010026)

26And Saul also went to his house at Gibeah. And with him went the mighty whose hearts God had touched.


## 1 Samuel 10:27 (id: 909010027)

27But the sons of worthlessness said, “How can this one save us?” And they despised him and did not bring to him a gift. But he was like one being silent.


## 1 Samuel 11:1 (id: 909011001)

1And Nahash the Ammonite went up and camped against Jabesh Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, “Cut a covenant for us, and we will serve you.”


## 1 Samuel 11:2 (id: 909011002)

2And Nahash the Ammonite said to them, “By this will I cut for you, by gouging out for you every right eye. And I will set it as a disgrace against all Israel.”


## 1 Samuel 11:3 (id: 909011003)

3And the elders of Jabesh said to him, “Leave us alone seven days, so that we may send messengers through all the territory of Israel. And if there is no one to save us, then we will go out to you.”


## 1 Samuel 11:4 (id: 909011004)

4And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul, and they spoke the words in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice and wept.


## 1 Samuel 11:5 (id: 909011005)

5And behold, Saul was coming behind the cattle from the field. And Saul said, “What is for the people that they are weeping?” And they recounted to him the words of the men of Jabesh.


## 1 Samuel 11:6 (id: 909011006)

6And the Spirit of God rushed on Saul when he heard these words. And his nose burned exceedingly.


## 1 Samuel 11:7 (id: 909011007)

7And he took a pair of cattle, and cut it into pieces, and sent away through all the territory of Israel by the hand of the messengers, saying, “Whoever is not coming out behind Saul and behind Samuel, thus will be done to his cattle.” And the dread of Yahweh fell on the people, and they went out as one man.


## 1 Samuel 11:8 (id: 909011008)

8And he mustered them at Bezek. And the sons of Israel were 300,000, and the men of Judah were 30,000\.


## 1 Samuel 11:9 (id: 909011009)

9And they said to the messengers who had come, “Thus you will say to the men of Jabesh Gilead, ‘Tomorrow deliverance will be for you, at the heat of the sun.’” And the messengers went and told the men of Jabesh, and they rejoiced.


## 1 Samuel 11:10 (id: 909011010)

10And the men of Jabesh said, “Tomorrow we will go out to you. And you may do to us according to all the good in your eyes.”


## 1 Samuel 11:11 (id: 909011011)

11And it happened from the next day that Saul set the people in three heads. And they came into the midst of the camp at the watch of the morning, and they struck down Ammon until the heat of the day. And it happened that the remaining ones were scattered, and two among them did not remain together.


## 1 Samuel 11:12 (id: 909011012)

12And the people said to Samuel, “Who are those who said, ‘Will Saul reign over us?’ Give the men, and we will put them to death.”


## 1 Samuel 11:13 (id: 909011013)

13And Saul said, “A man shall not be put to death on this day. For today Yahweh has done a deliverance in Israel.”


## 1 Samuel 11:14 (id: 909011014)

14And Samuel said to the people, “Come, and let us go to the Gilgal. And let us renew the kingship there.”


## 1 Samuel 11:15 (id: 909011015)

15And all the people went to the Gilgal and caused Saul to reign there before the face of Yahweh in the Gilgal. And there they sacrificed sacrifices, peace offerings, before the face of Yahweh. And there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced up to abundance.


## 1 Samuel 12:1 (id: 909012001)

1And Samuel said to all Israel, “Behold, I have listened to your voice, according to all that you said to me. And I have caused a king to reign over you.


## 1 Samuel 12:2 (id: 909012002)

2And now, behold the king is walking about before your face. And as for me, I am old and gray; and my sons, behold they are with you. And I myself have walked about before your face from my youth until this day.


## 1 Samuel 12:3 (id: 909012003)

3Here I am! Testify against me in front of Yahweh and in front of his anointed one. Whose ox have I taken, or whose donkey have I taken, or whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed or from whose hand have I taken a bribe so that I hid my eyes with it? And I will restore to you.”


## 1 Samuel 12:4 (id: 909012004)

4And they said, “You have not defrauded us, and have not oppressed us, and have not taken anything from the hand of a man.”


## 1 Samuel 12:5 (id: 909012005)

5And he said to them, “Yahweh is a witness against you, and his anointed one is a witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand.” And he said,“Witness.”


## 1 Samuel 12:6 (id: 909012006)

6And Samuel said to the people, “It is Yahweh who made Moses and Aaron, and who brought up your fathers from the land of Egypt.


## 1 Samuel 12:7 (id: 909012007)

7And now, station yourselves so that I may be judged with you before the face of Yahweh with all the righteous deeds of Yahweh, which he did with you and with your fathers.


## 1 Samuel 12:8 (id: 909012008)

8When Jacob came to Egypt, and your fathers cried out to Yahweh, then Yahweh sent Moses and Aaron, and they brought out your fathers from Egypt and they caused them to dwell in this place.


## 1 Samuel 12:9 (id: 909012009)

9And they forgot Yahweh their God. And he sold them into the hand of Sisera, the commander of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab. And they fought against them.


## 1 Samuel 12:10 (id: 909012010)

10And they cried out to Yahweh and said, ‘We have sinned, because we have forsaken Yahweh and have served the Baals and the Ashtoreths. And now rescue us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve you.’


## 1 Samuel 12:11 (id: 909012011)

11And Yahweh sent Jerub Baal and Bedan and Jephthah and Samuel. And he rescued you from the hand of your enemies from all around you, and you dwelled securely.


## 1 Samuel 12:12 (id: 909012012)

12And you saw that Nahash the king of the sons of Ammon came against you, and you said to me, ‘No! Rather a king will reign over us.’ But Yahweh your God was your king.


## 1 Samuel 12:13 (id: 909012013)

13And now, behold the king whom you have chosen, whom you have requested! And behold, Yahweh has given a king over you!


## 1 Samuel 12:14 (id: 909012014)

14If you fear Yahweh and serve him and listen to his voice and do not rebel against the mouth of Yahweh, then both you and the king who reigns over you will be after Yahweh your God.


## 1 Samuel 12:15 (id: 909012015)

15But if you do not listen to the voice of Yahweh, and you rebel against the mouth of Yahweh, then the hand of Yahweh will be against you and against your fathers.


## 1 Samuel 12:16 (id: 909012016)

16Even now station yourselves and see this great thing that Yahweh is about to do before your eyes.


## 1 Samuel 12:17 (id: 909012017)

17Is it not the harvest of wheat today? I will call to Yahweh, and he will give thunder and rain. And know and see that your evil is great, which you have done in the eyes of Yahweh, by requesting a king for yourselves.”


## 1 Samuel 12:18 (id: 909012018)

18And Samuel called to Yahweh, and Yahweh gave thunder and rain on that day. And all the people greatly feared Yahweh and Samuel.


## 1 Samuel 12:19 (id: 909012019)

19And all the people said to Samuel, “Pray for your servants to Yahweh your God, so that we may not die. For we have added evil onto all our sins by requesting a king for ourselves.”


## 1 Samuel 12:20 (id: 909012020)

20And Samuel said to the people, “Do not fear. You yourselves have done all this evil. Only do not turn aside from after Yahweh, but serve Yahweh with all your heart.


## 1 Samuel 12:21 (id: 909012021)

21And do not turn aside! For it is after the empty thing that does not profit and does not rescue, because they are emptiness.


## 1 Samuel 12:22 (id: 909012022)

22For Yahweh will not leave his people, for the sake of his great name. For Yahweh was pleased to make you into a people for himself.


## 1 Samuel 12:23 (id: 909012023)

23Also me, far be it for me from sinning against Yahweh by ceasing to pray for you. And I will instruct you in the good and straight way.


## 1 Samuel 12:24 (id: 909012024)

24Only fear Yahweh and serve him in faithfulness with all your heart. Indeed, see what he has made great with you!


## 1 Samuel 12:25 (id: 909012025)

25But if you continually do evil, both you and your king will be carried away.”


## 1 Samuel 13:1 (id: 909013001)

1Saul was a son of a year when he reigned. And he reigned over Israel two years.


## 1 Samuel 13:2 (id: 909013002)

2And Saul chose for himself 3, 000 from Israel. And 2, 000 were with Saul in Michmash and in the hill country of Bethel, and 1, 000 were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin. And the rest of the people he sent away, a man to his tent.


## 1 Samuel 13:3 (id: 909013003)

3And Jonathan struck down the garrison of the Philistines that was at Geba and the Philistines heard. And Saul blew with the horn in all the land, saying, “Let the Hebrews hear!”


## 1 Samuel 13:4 (id: 909013004)

4And all Israel heard, saying, “Saul struck down the garrison of the Philistines, and also Israel has become a stench among the Philistines.” And the people were called together after Saul at the Gilgal.


## 1 Samuel 13:5 (id: 909013005)

5And the Philistines gathered to fight against Israel: 30,000 chariots and 6,000 horsemen and a people like the sand that is on the shore of the sea wiith respect to abundance. And they went up and camped at Michmash, east of Beth Aven.


## 1 Samuel 13:6 (id: 909013006)

6And the men of Israel saw that it was narrow for them, for the people were hard\-pressed. And the people hid themselves in the caves and in the thornbushes and in the cliffs and in the underground chambers and in the pits.


## 1 Samuel 13:7 (id: 909013007)

7And Hebrews crossed over the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. But Saul was still at the Gilgal and all the people trembled after him.


## 1 Samuel 13:8 (id: 909013008)

8And he waited seven days to the appointed time when Samuel would be there, but Samuel did not come to the Gilgal. And the people scattered from beside him.


## 1 Samuel 13:9 (id: 909013009)

9And Saul said, “Bring near to me the burnt up offering and the peace offerings.” And he offered up the burnt up offering.


## 1 Samuel 13:10 (id: 909013010)

10And it happened as soon as he finished offering up the burnt up offering that, behold, Samuel came! And Saul went out to meet him to bless him.


## 1 Samuel 13:11 (id: 909013011)

11And Samuel said, “What have you done?” And Saul said, “When I saw that the people scattered from beside me, and you, you did not come by the appointed time of days, and the Philistines were gathering at Michmash,


## 1 Samuel 13:12 (id: 909013012)

12then I said, ‘Now the Philistines will come down against me at the Gilgal, and I have not appeased the face of Yahweh.’ So I forced myself and offered up the burnt up offering.”


## 1 Samuel 13:13 (id: 909013013)

13And Samuel said to Saul, “You have acted foolishly! You have not kept the command of Yahweh your God that he commanded you. For then Yahweh would have established your reign over Israel until eternity.


## 1 Samuel 13:14 (id: 909013014)

14But now your reign will not stand. Yahweh has sought for himself a man according to his heart, and Yahweh has commanded him to be leader over his people, for you did not keep what Yahweh commanded you.”


## 1 Samuel 13:15 (id: 909013015)

15And Samuel rose and went up from the Gilgal to Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul mustered the people who were found with him, about 600 men.


## 1 Samuel 13:16 (id: 909013016)

16Now Saul and Jonathan his son and the people who were found with him were staying in Geba of Benjamin. And the Philistines camped at Michmash.


## 1 Samuel 13:17 (id: 909013017)

17And destroyers went out from the camp of the Philistines, three heads. One head turned to the way of Ophrah, to the land of Shual.


## 1 Samuel 13:18 (id: 909013018)

18And one head turned the way of Beth Horon. And one head turned the way of the border that looks down over the valley of Zeboyim, toward the wilderness.


## 1 Samuel 13:19 (id: 909013019)

19Now a blacksmith could not be found in all the land of Israel. For the Philistines said, “Lest the Hebrews make sword or spear.”


## 1 Samuel 13:20 (id: 909013020)

20And all Israel used to go down to the Philistines, a man to sharpen his plow and his mattock and his axe and his sickle.


## 1 Samuel 13:21 (id: 909013021)

21And the charge was a pim for the plowshares and for the mattocks and for three picks and for the axes and for straightening the goads.


## 1 Samuel 13:22 (id: 909013022)

22And it happened on the day of battle that a sword or spear was not found in the hands of any of the people who were with Saul and with Jonathan, but was found for Saul and for his son Jonathan.


## 1 Samuel 13:23 (id: 909013023)

23And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the pass of Michmash.


## 1 Samuel 14:1 (id: 909014001)

1And it happened one day that Jonathan the son of Saul said to his servant who carried his equipment, “Come, and let us cross over to the garrison of the Philistines that is on the other side from here.” But he did not tell his father.


## 1 Samuel 14:2 (id: 909014002)

2Now Saul was staying at the end of the Gibeah under the pomegranate tree that is in Migron. And the people who were with him were about 600 men,


## 1 Samuel 14:3 (id: 909014003)

3and Ahijah the son of Ahitub the brother of Ichabod the son of Phinehas the son of Eli, the priest of Yahweh at Shiloh who was carrying an ephod. And the people did not know that Jonathan had gone.


## 1 Samuel 14:4 (id: 909014004)

4Now between the passes that Jonathan sought to pass over to the garrison of the Philistines was the tooth of the cliff on one side from this and the tooth of the cliff on the other side from this. And the name of one was Bozez and the name of one was Seneh.


## 1 Samuel 14:5 (id: 909014005)

5The tooth of the one was a pillar from the north in front of Michmash. And the one from the south was in front of Geba.


## 1 Samuel 14:6 (id: 909014006)

6And Jonathan said to his servant who carried his equipment, “Come, and let us pass over to the garrison of these uncircumcised ones! Perhaps Yahweh will act for us, for there is no hindrance for Yahweh to save by many or by few.”


## 1 Samuel 14:7 (id: 909014007)

7And the one who carried his equipment said to him, “Do all that is in your heart. Turn for yourself; behold, I am with you according to your heart.”


## 1 Samuel 14:8 (id: 909014008)

8And Jonathan said, “Behold, we will cross over to the men. And we will reveal ourselves to them.


## 1 Samuel 14:9 (id: 909014009)

9If thus they say to us, ‘Be still until we reach you,’ then we will stand under ourselves and not go up to them.


## 1 Samuel 14:10 (id: 909014010)

10But if thus they say, ‘Come up to us,’ then we will go up, for Yahweh has given them into our hand. And this will be the sign for us.”


## 1 Samuel 14:11 (id: 909014011)

11And the two of them revealed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, “Behold, Hebrews are coming out from the holes there where they have hidden themselves.”


## 1 Samuel 14:12 (id: 909014012)

12And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and the one who carried his equipment, and said, “Come up to us, and we will cause you to know a thing.” And Jonathan said to the one who carried his equipment, “Go up behind me, for Yahweh has given them into the hand of Israel.”


## 1 Samuel 14:13 (id: 909014013)

13And Jonathan went up on his hands and on his feet, and the one who carried his equipment was behind him. And they fell before the face of Jonathan, and the one who carried his equipment was putting to death behind him.


## 1 Samuel 14:14 (id: 909014014)

14And the first blow that Jonathan and the one who carried his equipment struck was about 20 men in about half of a furrow, a yoke of a field.


## 1 Samuel 14:15 (id: 909014015)

15And a trembling was in the camp, in the field, and among all the people. The garrison and the destroyers, even they trembled. And the earth quaked and it became a trembling of God.


## 1 Samuel 14:16 (id: 909014016)

16And the lookouts of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and behold, the crowd melted away and went even here.


## 1 Samuel 14:17 (id: 909014017)

17And Saul said to the people who were with him, “Muster now and see who has gone from with us.” And they mustered, and behold, there was no Jonathan or the one who carried his equipment!


## 1 Samuel 14:18 (id: 909014018)

18And Saul said to Ahijah, “Bring near the Box of God.” For on that day the Box of God was with the sons of Israel.


## 1 Samuel 14:19 (id: 909014019)

19And it happened while Saul spoke to the priest, that the tumult that was in the camp of the Philistines was going continually and increasingly. And Saul said to the priest, “Withdraw your hand.”


## 1 Samuel 14:20 (id: 909014020)

20And Saul and all the people who were with him were called together and came to the battle. And behold, the sword of a man was against his companion, a very great confusion.


## 1 Samuel 14:21 (id: 909014021)

21Now some Hebrews were for the Philistines according to yesterday and three days ago, who had gone up with them into the camp all around. But even they were to be with Israel, who were with Saul and Jonathan.


## 1 Samuel 14:22 (id: 909014022)

22And all the men of Israel who had hidden themselves in the hill country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines fled, and they also pursued after them in the battle.


## 1 Samuel 14:23 (id: 909014023)

23And Yahweh saved Israel on that day. And the battle passed over Beth Aven.


## 1 Samuel 14:24 (id: 909014024)

24And the men of Israel were hard\-pressed on that day. And Saul had made the people swear, saying, “Cursed is the man who eats food until the evening and I take vengeance from my enemies.” So all the people had not tasted food.


## 1 Samuel 14:25 (id: 909014025)

25And all the land entered into the forest. And honey was on the face of the field.


## 1 Samuel 14:26 (id: 909014026)

26And the people entered into the forest, and behold, the flowing of honey! But no one reached his hand to his mouth for the people feared the oath.


## 1 Samuel 14:27 (id: 909014027)

27But Jonathan had not heard when his father had made the people swear. And he extended the end of the staff that was in his hand and dipped it in the honeycomb of the honey. And he returned his hand to his mouth and his eyes became bright.


## 1 Samuel 14:28 (id: 909014028)

28And a man from the people answered and said, “Your father surely made the people swear, saying, ‘Cursed is the man who eats food today.’ So the people are faint.”


## 1 Samuel 14:29 (id: 909014029)

29And Jonathan said, “My father has troubled the land. See now that my eyes have become bright because I tasted a little of this honey.


## 1 Samuel 14:30 (id: 909014030)

30How much more if the people had eaten freely today from the plunder of their enemies that they found? For now the blow has not been great among the Philistines.”


## 1 Samuel 14:31 (id: 909014031)

31And on that day they struck down the Philistines from Michmash to Aijalon. And the people were very faint.


## 1 Samuel 14:32 (id: 909014032)

32And the people rushed with shouting on the plunder and took sheep and cattle and sons of cattle, and they slaughtered on the ground. And the people ate with the blood.


## 1 Samuel 14:33 (id: 909014033)

33Then they told Saul, saying, “Behold, the people are sinning against Yahweh by eating with the blood!” And he said, “You have acted deceptively. Roll a big stone to me today.”


## 1 Samuel 14:34 (id: 909014034)

34And Saul said, “Disperse among the people and say to them, ‘Bring near to me, a man his ox and a man his sheep, and slaughter here and eat. And you shall not sin against Yahweh by eating with the blood.’” And all the people brought near, a man his ox by his hand that night and they slaughtered there.


## 1 Samuel 14:35 (id: 909014035)

35And Saul built an altar to Yahweh, it he began to build an altar to Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 14:36 (id: 909014036)

36And Saul said, “Let us go down after the Philistines by night and plunder them until the light of morning. And let us not leave a man among them.” And they said, “Do all the good in your eyes.” And the priest said, “Let us draw near to God here.”


## 1 Samuel 14:37 (id: 909014037)

37And Saul asked of God, “Should I go down after the Philistines? Will you give them into the hand of Israel?” But he did not answer him on that day.


## 1 Samuel 14:38 (id: 909014038)

38And Saul said, “Come near here, all the corners of the people! And know and see by what this sin has happened today.


## 1 Samuel 14:39 (id: 909014039)

39For, as Yahweh is alive, the one who saves Israel, even if it is by Jonathan my son, indeed he will surely die.” But there was no one answering him from all the people.


## 1 Samuel 14:40 (id: 909014040)

40And he said to all Israel, “You will be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on one side.” And the people said to Saul, “Do the good in your eyes.”


## 1 Samuel 14:41 (id: 909014041)

41And Saul said to Yahweh the God of Israel, “Give a perfect one!” And Jonathan and Saul were taken, but the people went out.


## 1 Samuel 14:42 (id: 909014042)

42And Saul said, “Cause it to fall between me and Jonathan my son.” And Jonathan was taken.


## 1 Samuel 14:43 (id: 909014043)

43And Saul said to Jonathan, “Tell me what you have done.” And Jonathan told him and said, “Indeed I tasted a little honey with the end of the staff that was in my hand. Here I am; I will die.”


## 1 Samuel 14:44 (id: 909014044)

44And Saul said, “May God do so and may he add so, for you shall surely die, Jonathan.”


## 1 Samuel 14:45 (id: 909014045)

45And the people said to Saul, “Should Jonathan die, who has made this great salvation in Israel? Far from it! As Yahweh is alive, a hair of his head will not fall to the ground! For he has worked with God this day.” And the people ransomed Jonathan and he did not die.


## 1 Samuel 14:46 (id: 909014046)

46And Saul went up from after the Philistines. And the Philistines went to their place.


## 1 Samuel 14:47 (id: 909014047)

47Now Saul had taken the kingship over Israel. And he fought against all his enemies all around: against Moab and against the sons of Ammon and against Edom and against the kings of Zobah and against the Philistines. And he inflicted punishment against everywhere he turned.


## 1 Samuel 14:48 (id: 909014048)

48And he acted strongly and struck down the Amalekites. And he rescued Israel from the hand of those who plundered it.


## 1 Samuel 14:49 (id: 909014049)

49Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan and Ishvi and Malki\-Shua. As for the names of the two of his daughters: the name of the firstborn was Merab and the name of the younger was Michal.


## 1 Samuel 14:50 (id: 909014050)

50The name of the wife of Saul was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz. And the name of the commander of his army was Abner the son of Ner the uncle of Saul.


## 1 Samuel 14:51 (id: 909014051)

51And Kish was the father of Saul, and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.


## 1 Samuel 14:52 (id: 909014052)

52And the battle was strong against the Philistines all the days of Saul. When Saul saw any man of might, or any son of strength, then he gathered him to himself.


## 1 Samuel 15:1 (id: 909015001)

1And Samuel said to Saul, “Yahweh sent me to anoint you as king over his people, over Israel. And now, listen to the voice of the words of Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 15:2 (id: 909015002)

2Thus says Yahweh of hosts, ‘I have noted what Amalek did to Israel when he set against him on the way when he came up from Egypt.


## 1 Samuel 15:3 (id: 909015003)

3Now go and strike down Amalek and completely destroy all that is for him, and do not have compassion on him. But put to death from man as far as woman, from child and as far as infant, from ox and as far as sheep, from camel and as far as donkey.’”


## 1 Samuel 15:4 (id: 909015004)

4And Saul caused the people to hear and mustered them at the Telaim: 200,000 on foot, and 10,000 men of Judah.


## 1 Samuel 15:5 (id: 909015005)

5Then Saul came as far as the city of Amalek and he lie in ambush in the wadi.


## 1 Samuel 15:6 (id: 909015006)

6And Saul said to the Kenites, “Go, depart, go down from the midst of the Amalekite, lest I remove you with him. As for you, you did kindness with all the sons of Israel when they came up from Egypt.” And the Kenites departed from the midst of Amalek.


## 1 Samuel 15:7 (id: 909015007)

7And Saul struck down Amalek, from Havilah as you enter Shur, which is on the face of Egypt.


## 1 Samuel 15:8 (id: 909015008)

8And he seized Agag the king of Amalek alive. But he completely destroyed all the people by the mouth of the sword.


## 1 Samuel 15:9 (id: 909015009)

9And Saul and the people had compassion on Agag and on the best of the sheep and the cattle and the second ones and on the young rams and on all the good, and they were not willing to completely destroy them. But all the despised and weak property, it they completely destroyed.


## 1 Samuel 15:10 (id: 909015010)

10And the word of Yahweh was to Samuel, saying,


## 1 Samuel 15:11 (id: 909015011)

11“I regret that I have caused Saul to reign as king, for he has turned from after me and has not raised up my words.” And it was hot for Samuel, and he cried out to Yahweh all the night.


## 1 Samuel 15:12 (id: 909015012)

12And Samuel rose early in the morning to meet Saul. And it was told to Samuel, saying, “Saul came to the Carmel, and behold, he is setting up a monument for himself! And he turned around and passed over and went down to the Gilgal.”


## 1 Samuel 15:13 (id: 909015013)

13And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, “Blessed are you by Yahweh! I have raised up the word of Yahweh.”


## 1 Samuel 15:14 (id: 909015014)

14And Samuel said, “And what is the sound of this flock in my ears? And the sound of the cattle that I am hearing?”


## 1 Samuel 15:15 (id: 909015015)

15And Saul said, “They have brought them from the Amalekite. For the people had compassion on the best of the sheep and the cattle, in order to sacrifice to Yahweh your God. But the excess we have completely destroyed.”


## 1 Samuel 15:16 (id: 909015016)

16And Samuel said to Saul, “Stop, and let me tell you what Yahweh spoke to me at night.” And he said to him, “Speak!”


## 1 Samuel 15:17 (id: 909015017)

17And Samuel said, “Although you are small in your own eyes, are you not the head of the tribes of Israel? And Yahweh anointed you as king over Israel.


## 1 Samuel 15:18 (id: 909015018)

18And Yahweh sent you on your way. And he said, ‘Go and completely destroy the sinners, Amalek. And fight against them until they have finished them.’


## 1 Samuel 15:19 (id: 909015019)

19And why did you not listen to the voice of Yahweh? But you rushed with shouting on the spoil and you did evil in the eyes of Yahweh.”


## 1 Samuel 15:20 (id: 909015020)

20And Saul said to Samuel, “I have listened to the voice of Yahweh, and have gone on the way that Yahweh sent me. And I have brought Agag the king of Amalek and have completely destroyed Amalek.


## 1 Samuel 15:21 (id: 909015021)

21And the people took from the spoil sheep and cattle, the first of the banned thing, to sacrifice to Yahweh your God at the Gilgal.”


## 1 Samuel 15:22 (id: 909015022)

22And Samuel said, “Is the delight of Yahweh in burnt up offerings and sacrifices, as in listening to the voice of Yahweh? Behold, listening is better than sacrifice, paying attention is more than the fat of rams.


## 1 Samuel 15:23 (id: 909015023)

23For rebellion is the sin of divination, and to display pushing is iniquity and idols. Because you have rejected the word of Yahweh, he has rejected you from being king.”


## 1 Samuel 15:24 (id: 909015024)

24And Saul said to Samuel, “I have sinned! For I have passed over the mouth of Yahweh and your words, because I feared the people and listened to their voice.


## 1 Samuel 15:25 (id: 909015025)

25And now, please lift up my sin. And return with me so I may worship Yahweh.”


## 1 Samuel 15:26 (id: 909015026)

26And Samuel said to Saul, “I will not return with you. For you have rejected the word of Yahweh, and Yahweh has rejected you from being king over Israel.”


## 1 Samuel 15:27 (id: 909015027)

27And Samuel turned around to go. And he grabbed the edge of his robe, and it was torn.


## 1 Samuel 15:28 (id: 909015028)

28And Samuel said to him, “Yahweh has torn the kingdom of Israel from on you today. And he has given it to your companion, the better one than you.


## 1 Samuel 15:29 (id: 909015029)

29And also, the Perpetual One of Israel will not act falsely and will not change his mind. For he is not a man, changing his mind.”


## 1 Samuel 15:30 (id: 909015030)

30And he said, “I have sinned! Now please honor me in front of the elders of my people and in front of Israel. And return with me, so I may worship Yahweh your God.”


## 1 Samuel 15:31 (id: 909015031)

31And Samuel returned behind Saul. And Saul worshiped Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 15:32 (id: 909015032)

32And Samuel said, “Bring near to me Agag the king of Amalek.” And Agag went to him in bonds. And Agag said, “Surely the bitterness of death has turned aside.”


## 1 Samuel 15:33 (id: 909015033)

33And Samuel said, “Just as your sword has made women childless, so will your mother be made childless among women.” And Samuel hacked Agag to pieces before the face of Yahweh at the Gilgal.


## 1 Samuel 15:34 (id: 909015034)

34And Samuel went to the Ramah. And Saul went up to his house at Gibeah of Saul.


## 1 Samuel 15:35 (id: 909015035)

35And Samuel did not see Saul again until the day of his death, but Samuel mourned for Saul. And Yahweh regretted that he had caused Saul to reign over Israel.


## 1 Samuel 16:1 (id: 909016001)

1And Yahweh said to Samuel, “Until when will you be mourning for Saul, while I myself have rejected him from being king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and go. I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have seen among his sons a king for me.”


## 1 Samuel 16:2 (id: 909016002)

2And Samuel said, “How can I go? If Saul hears, then he will slay me.” And Yahweh said, “Take a heifer of the cattle in your hand and say, ‘I have come to sacrifice to Yahweh.’


## 1 Samuel 16:3 (id: 909016003)

3And call for Jesse at the sacrifice, and I myself will show you what you shall do. And you shall anoint for me whom I say to you.”


## 1 Samuel 16:4 (id: 909016004)

4And Samuel did what Yahweh had spoken and he came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the city trembled to meet him and said, “Are you coming in peace?”


## 1 Samuel 16:5 (id: 909016005)

5And he said, “In peace; I have come to sacrifice to Yahweh. Consecrate yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice.” And he consecrated Jesse and his sons and called them to the sacrifice.


## 1 Samuel 16:6 (id: 909016006)

6And it happened when they came, that he saw Eliab. And he said, “Surely in front of Yahweh is his anointed one.”


## 1 Samuel 16:7 (id: 909016007)

7And Yahweh said to Samuel, “Do not look on his outward appearance or on the height of his stature because I have rejected him. For it is not what the man sees, for the man sees by the eyes, but Yahweh sees to the heart.”


## 1 Samuel 16:8 (id: 909016008)

8And Jesse called for Abinadab and made him pass over before the face of Samuel. And he said, “Also Yahweh has not chosen this one.”


## 1 Samuel 16:9 (id: 909016009)

9And Jesse made Shammah pass over. And he said, “Also Yahweh has not chosen this one.”


## 1 Samuel 16:10 (id: 909016010)

10And Jesse made seven of his sons pass over before the face of Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, “Yahweh has not chosen among these.”


## 1 Samuel 16:11 (id: 909016011)

11And Samuel said to Jesse, “Are your young men complete?” And he said, “The youngest one still remains, and behold, he is tending among the flock.” And Samuel said to Jesse, “Send and get him, for we will not turn around until he comes here.”


## 1 Samuel 16:12 (id: 909016012)

12And he sent and brought him. (Now he was ruddy with beautiful eyes and a good appearance.) And Yahweh said, “Rise, anoint him, for this is he.”


## 1 Samuel 16:13 (id: 909016013)

13And Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the middle of his brothers. And the Spirit of Yahweh rushed on David from that day and onward. And Samuel rose and went to the Ramah.


## 1 Samuel 16:14 (id: 909016014)

14Now the Spirit of Yahweh turned aside from with Saul, and a spirit of evil from with Yahweh terrified him.


## 1 Samuel 16:15 (id: 909016015)

15And the servants of Saul said to him, “ “Behold, an evil spirit of God is terrifying you.


## 1 Samuel 16:16 (id: 909016016)

16Let our master please say to your servants before your face, “, ‘Seek a man who knows how to play on the lyre.’ And it will happen that when the evil spirit of God is on you, then he will play by his hand and it will be good for you.”


## 1 Samuel 16:17 (id: 909016017)

17And Saul said to his servants, “See now for me a man who is good at playing and bring him to me.”


## 1 Samuel 16:18 (id: 909016018)

18And one from the young men answered and said, “Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, knowing how to play and mighty of strength and a man of war and discerning of word and a man of appearance. And Yahweh is with him.”


## 1 Samuel 16:19 (id: 909016019)

19And Saul sent messengers to Jesse. And he said, “Send to me David your son, who is with the flock.”


## 1 Samuel 16:20 (id: 909016020)

20And Jesse took a donkey, bread, and a skin of wine, and one kid of the goats, and he sent them by the hand of David his son to Saul.


## 1 Samuel 16:21 (id: 909016021)

21And David came to Saul and he stood before his face. And he loved him greatly, and he became for him one who carried the equipment.


## 1 Samuel 16:22 (id: 909016022)

22And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, “Let David now stand before my face, for he has found favor in my eyes.”


## 1 Samuel 16:23 (id: 909016023)

23And it happened that whenever the spirit of God was on Saul, then David took the lyre and played by his hand. And it would be relief for Saul and good for him, and the spirit of evil would turn aside from on him.


## 1 Samuel 17:1 (id: 909017001)

1And the Philistines gathered their camps for the battle. And they were gathered at Sokoh, which is of Judah. And they camped between Sokoh and Azekah in Ephes Dammim.


## 1 Samuel 17:2 (id: 909017002)

2And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered and they camped in the valley of Elah. And they arranged for battle to meet the Philistines.


## 1 Samuel 17:3 (id: 909017003)

3Now the Philistines were standing on this mountain, and Israel was standing on that mountain. And the valley was between them.


## 1 Samuel 17:4 (id: 909017004)

4And a man of the space between came out from the camp of the Philistines, Goliath was his name, from Gath. His height was six cubits and a span.


## 1 Samuel 17:5 (id: 909017005)

5And a helmet of bronze was on his head and he was wearing body armor of scales. And the weight of the body armor was 5,000 shekels of bronze.


## 1 Samuel 17:6 (id: 909017006)

6And shin guards of bronze were on his legs. And a javelin of bronze was between his shoulders.


## 1 Samuel 17:7 (id: 909017007)

7And the wood of his spear was like the beam of those who weave. And the point of his spear was 600 iron shekels. And the one who carried his shield was going before his face.


## 1 Samuel 17:8 (id: 909017008)

8And he stood and called out to the ranks of Israel, and he said to them, “Why have you come out to arrange for battle? Am not I a Philistine, and you, servants of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves and let him come down to me.


## 1 Samuel 17:9 (id: 909017009)

9If he is able to fight with me and strike me down, then we will become servants for you. But if I prevail against him and strike him down, then you will become servants for us and you will serve us.”


## 1 Samuel 17:10 (id: 909017010)

10And the Philistine said, “I myself taunt the ranks of Israel this day. Give to me a man so we may fight together.”


## 1 Samuel 17:11 (id: 909017011)

11And Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine. And they were dismayed and feared greatly.


## 1 Samuel 17:12 (id: 909017012)

12Now David was the son of this Ephrathite man from Bethlehem in Judah, and his name was Jesse. And eight sons were for him. And the man was old in the days of Saul, coming among men.


## 1 Samuel 17:13 (id: 909017013)

13And the oldest three of the sons of Jesse had gone, they went after Saul to the battle. And the names of the three of his sons who went into the battle were Eliab the firstborn and his second Abinadab and the third Shammah.


## 1 Samuel 17:14 (id: 909017014)

14Now David, he was the youngest. And the three oldest ones had gone after Saul.


## 1 Samuel 17:15 (id: 909017015)

15But David was going and returning from with Saul to tend the flock of his father at Bethlehem.


## 1 Samuel 17:16 (id: 909017016)

16And the Philistine came near at early morning and at evening. And he stationed himself 40 days.


## 1 Samuel 17:17 (id: 909017017)

17And Jesse said to David his son, “Take now to your brothers an ephah of this roasted grain and ten loaves of this bread, and bring quickly to the camp, to your brothers.


## 1 Samuel 17:18 (id: 909017018)

18And bring these ten cuts of cheese to the commander of the thousand. And observe your brothers with respect to well\-being and take their pledge.


## 1 Samuel 17:19 (id: 909017019)

19Now Saul and they and all the men of Israel are in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.”


## 1 Samuel 17:20 (id: 909017020)

20And David rose early in the morning and left the flock with one who keeps. And he carried and went, just as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the entrenchment and the army was going out to the battle line and they shouted in the battle.


## 1 Samuel 17:21 (id: 909017021)

21And Israel and the Philistines arranged, battle line to meet battle line.


## 1 Samuel 17:22 (id: 909017022)

22And David left the equipment from on him on the hand of one who keeps the equipment, and he ran to the battle line. And he came and asked his brothers with respect to well\-being.


## 1 Samuel 17:23 (id: 909017023)

23And he was speaking with them, and behold, the man of the between space was coming up, Goliath the Philistine was his name, from Gath, from the ranks of the Philistines, and he spoke like these words. And David heard.


## 1 Samuel 17:24 (id: 909017024)

24And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, they fled from his face and feared greatly.


## 1 Samuel 17:25 (id: 909017025)

25And the men of Israel said, “Have you seen this man who is coming up? Surely he is coming up to taunt Israel! And it will happen that the king will make rich with great wealth the man who strikes him down, and he will give his daughter to him, and he will make the house of his father free in Israel.”


## 1 Samuel 17:26 (id: 909017026)

26And David said to the men who were standing with him, saying, “What will be done for the man who strikes down this Philistine and removes the disgrace from on Israel? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should taunt the ranks of the living God?”


## 1 Samuel 17:27 (id: 909017027)

27And the people said to him like this word, saying, “Thus it will be done for the man who strikes him down.”


## 1 Samuel 17:28 (id: 909017028)

28And Eliab his oldest brother heard when he spoke to the men. And the nose of Eliab burned against David, and he said, “Why is this—you came down? And with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I myself know your presumtuousness and the evil of your heart, for you have come down in order to see the battle!”


## 1 Samuel 17:29 (id: 909017029)

29And David said, “What have I done now? Was it not a word?”


## 1 Samuel 17:30 (id: 909017030)

30And he turned around from beside him toward the front of another and spoke like this word. And the people returned a word to him like the first word.


## 1 Samuel 17:31 (id: 909017031)

31And they heard the words that David spoke. And they told before the face of Saul, and he took him.


## 1 Samuel 17:32 (id: 909017032)

32And David said to Saul, “Do not let the heart of a man fall on himself. Your servant will go and fight with this Philistine.”


## 1 Samuel 17:33 (id: 909017033)

33And Saul said to David, “You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him. For you are a boy, but he a man of war from his youth.”


## 1 Samuel 17:34 (id: 909017034)

34And David said to Saul, “Your servant has been tending for his father among the flock. And the lion or the bear has come and has carried a sheep from the flock.


## 1 Samuel 17:35 (id: 909017035)

35And I have gone out after it and struck it and rescued from its mouth. If it rose against me, then I would grasp its jaw and strike it down and put it to death.


## 1 Samuel 17:36 (id: 909017036)

36Your servant has struck down both the lion and the bear. And this uncircumcised Philistine will be like one of them, for he has taunted the ranks of the living God.”


## 1 Samuel 17:37 (id: 909017037)

37And David said, “Yahweh who has rescued me from the hand of the lion and from the hand of the bear, he will rescue me from the hand of this Philistine.” And Saul said to David, “Go, and Yahweh be with you.”


## 1 Samuel 17:38 (id: 909017038)

38And Saul clothed David with his garments and put a helmet of bronze on his head. And he clothed him with body armor.


## 1 Samuel 17:39 (id: 909017039)

39And David strapped on his sword over his garments and he undertook to walk because he had not trained. And David said to Saul, “I am not able to walk with these, for I have not trained.” And David removed them from on him.


## 1 Samuel 17:40 (id: 909017040)

40And he took his staff in his hand and chose for himself five smooth stones from the wadi, and he put them in the bag of the shepherds that belonged to him, even in the pouch, and his sling was in his hand. And he came near to the Philistine.


## 1 Samuel 17:41 (id: 909017041)

41And the Philistine came, coming on and near to David. And the man who carried the shield was before his face.


## 1 Samuel 17:42 (id: 909017042)

42And the Philistine looked and saw David, and he despised him, for he was a boy, and ruddy with a beautiful appearance.


## 1 Samuel 17:43 (id: 909017043)

43And the Philistine said to David, “Am I a dog, that you are coming to me with staves?” And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.


## 1 Samuel 17:44 (id: 909017044)

44And the Philistine said to David, “Come to me, and let me give your flesh to the bird of the heavens and to the beast of the field.”


## 1 Samuel 17:45 (id: 909017045)

45And David said to the Philistine, “You are coming to me with sword and with spear and with javelin. But I am coming to you in the name of Yahweh of hosts, the God of the ranks of Israel, whom you have taunted.


## 1 Samuel 17:46 (id: 909017046)

46This day Yahweh will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down and remove your head from on you. And this day I will give the corpse of the army of the Philistines to the bird of the heavens and to the living thing of the earth. And all the earth will know that there is a God for Israel.


## 1 Samuel 17:47 (id: 909017047)

47And all this assembly will know that Yahweh does not save by sword or by spear. For the battle belongs to Yahweh, and he will give you into our hand.”


## 1 Samuel 17:48 (id: 909017048)

48And it happened when the Philistine rose and went and came near to meet David, that David hurried and ran to the battle line to meet the Philistine.


## 1 Samuel 17:49 (id: 909017049)

49And David sent his hand into his bag, and took a stone from there, and slung. And it struck the Philistine on his forehead. And the stone sank into his forehead and he fell on his face to the ground.


## 1 Samuel 17:50 (id: 909017050)

50And David was stronger than the Philistine with the sling and with the stone. And he struck down the Philistine and put him to death. (Now there was no sword in the hand of David.)


## 1 Samuel 17:51 (id: 909017051)

51And David ran and stood over the Philistine and took his sword and drew it from its sheath and put him to death and cut off his head with it. And the Philistines saw that their strong man was dead and they fled.


## 1 Samuel 17:52 (id: 909017052)

52And the men of Israel and Judah rose and they shouted and pursued the Philistines as far as your coming to the valley and as far as the gates of Ekron. And the pierced ones of the Philistines fell on the way of Shaaraim and as far as Gath and as far as Ekron.


## 1 Samuel 17:53 (id: 909017053)

53And the sons of Israel returned from burning after the Philistines. And they plundered their camp.


## 1 Samuel 17:54 (id: 909017054)

54And David took the head of the Philistine and brought it to Jerusalem. And he set his equipment in his tent.


## 1 Samuel 17:55 (id: 909017055)

55Now as soon as Saul saw David going out to meet the Philistine, he said to Abner the commander of the army, “This boy is the son of whom, Abner?” And Abner said, “As your self is alive, king, if I know!”


## 1 Samuel 17:56 (id: 909017056)

56And the king said, “You ask the son of whom is this boy.”


## 1 Samuel 17:57 (id: 909017057)

57And as soon as David returned from striking down the Philistine, then Abner took him and brought him before the face of Saul. And the head of the Philistine was in his hand.


## 1 Samuel 17:58 (id: 909017058)

58And Saul said to him, “The son of whom are you, boy?” And David said, “The son of your servant Jesse the Bethlehemite.”


## 1 Samuel 18:1 (id: 909018001)

1And it happened as soon as he finished speaking to Saul, that the self of Jonathan was bound to the self of David. And Jonathan loved him like his own self.


## 1 Samuel 18:2 (id: 909018002)

2And Saul took him on that day. And he did not give him to return to the house of his father.


## 1 Samuel 18:3 (id: 909018003)

3And Jonathan cut a covenant with David because he loved him like his own self.


## 1 Samuel 18:4 (id: 909018004)

4And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and he gave it to David, and his garments and even to his sword and even to his bow and even to his belt.


## 1 Samuel 18:5 (id: 909018005)

5And David went out, he succeeded at wherever Saul sent him. And Saul set him over the men of war. And he was good in the eyes of all the people and also in the eyes of the servants of Saul.


## 1 Samuel 18:6 (id: 909018006)

6And it happened when they came, when David returned from striking down the Philistine, that the women came out from all the cities of Israel to sing with the dancing ones, to meet Saul the king, with tambourines, with joy, and with three\-stringed instruments.


## 1 Samuel 18:7 (id: 909018007)

7And the women sang who were playing, and said: “Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands.”


## 1 Samuel 18:8 (id: 909018008)

8And it burned greatly for Saul, and this thing was evil in his eyes. And he said, “They have given to David ten thousands, but to me they have given the thousands. And only the kingship is yet for him!”


## 1 Samuel 18:9 (id: 909018009)

9And it happened that Saul looked at David with suspicion from that day and onward.


## 1 Samuel 18:10 (id: 909018010)

10And it happened from the next day that an evil spirit of God rushed on Saul and he prophesied in the midst of the house. And David was playing by his hand, as day by day. And the spear was in the hand of Saul.


## 1 Samuel 18:11 (id: 909018011)

11And Saul hurled the spear, and he said, “I will strike David, even into the wall!” But David turned around from his face two times.


## 1 Samuel 18:12 (id: 909018012)

12And Saul was afraid from before the face of David. For Yahweh was with him but had turned aside from with Saul.


## 1 Samuel 18:13 (id: 909018013)

13And Saul removed him from with him and set him as a commander of a thousand for himself. And he went out and came in before the face of the people.


## 1 Samuel 18:14 (id: 909018014)

14And David was succeeding in all his ways. And Yahweh was with him.


## 1 Samuel 18:15 (id: 909018015)

15And Saul saw that he was succeeding greatly. And he dreaded his face.


## 1 Samuel 18:16 (id: 909018016)

16But all Israel and Judah were loving David, for he was going out and coming in before their face.


## 1 Samuel 18:17 (id: 909018017)

17And Saul said to David, “Behold, my oldest daughter Merab. I will give her to you for a wife. Only become for me a son of strength and fight the battles of Yahweh.” And Saul said, “Let not my hand be against him, but let the hand of the Philistines be against him.”


## 1 Samuel 18:18 (id: 909018018)

18And David said to Saul, “Who am I, and who are my relatives of the clan of my father in Israel, that I should be son\-in\-law to the king?”


## 1 Samuel 18:19 (id: 909018019)

19And it happened at the time to give Merab the daughter of Saul to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite for a wife.


## 1 Samuel 18:20 (id: 909018020)

20And Michal the daughter of Saul loved David. And they told Saul and the matter was right in his eyes.


## 1 Samuel 18:21 (id: 909018021)

21And Saul said, “I will give her to him and may she become a snare for him and may the hand of the Philistines be against him.” And Saul said to David a second time, “You will be a son\-in\-law of mine today.”


## 1 Samuel 18:22 (id: 909018022)

22And Saul commanded his servants, “Speak to David in secrecy, saying, ‘Behold, the king delights in you and all his servants love you. And now, become a son\-in\-law of the king.’”


## 1 Samuel 18:23 (id: 909018023)

23And the servants of Saul spoke these words in the ears of David. And David said, “Is it insignificant in your eyes to be a son\-in\-law of the king? And I am a poor man and lightly esteemed.”


## 1 Samuel 18:24 (id: 909018024)

24And the servants of Saul told him, saying, “Like these words David spoke.”


## 1 Samuel 18:25 (id: 909018025)

25And Saul said, “Thus you shall say to David, ‘There is no desire of the king for the bride price, except for a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged on the enemies of the king.’” (Now Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.)


## 1 Samuel 18:26 (id: 909018026)

26And his servants told David these words, and the word was right in the eyes of David, to become son\-in\-law of the king. And the days were not fulfilled.


## 1 Samuel 18:27 (id: 909018027)

27And David rose and went, he and his men, and he struck down 200 men among the Philistines. And David brought their foreskins and they fulfilled them for the king, to become son\-in\-law of the king. And Saul gave to him Michal his daughter for his wife.


## 1 Samuel 18:28 (id: 909018028)

28And Saul saw and he knew that Yahweh was with David and Michal the daughter of Saul loved him.


## 1 Samuel 18:29 (id: 909018029)

29And Saul added to be more afraid from the face of David. And Saul was being hostile to David all the days.


## 1 Samuel 18:30 (id: 909018030)

30And the commanders of the Philistines came out. And it happened that as often as they came out, David was more successful than all the servants of Saul and his name became greatly esteemed.


## 1 Samuel 19:1 (id: 909019001)

1And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants to put David to death. But Jonathan the son of Saul delighted greatly in David.


## 1 Samuel 19:2 (id: 909019002)

2And Jonathan told David, saying, “Saul my father is seeking to put you to death. And now, please be on guard in the morning and stay in the hiding place and hide yourself.


## 1 Samuel 19:3 (id: 909019003)

3As for me, I will go out and stand by the hand of my father in the field there where you are, and I myself will speak of you to my father. And I will see whatever and I will tell you.”


## 1 Samuel 19:4 (id: 909019004)

4And Jonathan spoke good of David to Saul his father and said to him, “Do not let the king sin against his servant, against David. For he has not sinned against you and indeed his deeds were very good for you.


## 1 Samuel 19:5 (id: 909019005)

5And he set his life in his palm and struck down the Philistine. And Yahweh made a great salvation for all Israel. You saw and rejoiced. And why would you sin against innocent blood by putting David to death without cause?”


## 1 Samuel 19:6 (id: 909019006)

6And Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan. And Saul swore, “As Yahweh is alive, he shall not be put to death!”


## 1 Samuel 19:7 (id: 909019007)

7And Jonathan called out to David, and Jonathan told him all these words. And Jonathan brought David to Saul and he was before his face as yesterday and three days ago.


## 1 Samuel 19:8 (id: 909019008)

8And there was war again. And David went out and fought with the Philistines and struck them a great blow. And they fled from his face.


## 1 Samuel 19:9 (id: 909019009)

9And an evil spirit of Yahweh was on Saul and he was sitting in his house and his spear was in his hand. And David was playing by hand.


## 1 Samuel 19:10 (id: 909019010)

10And Saul sought to strike into David with the spear, even into the wall, but he escaped from the face of Saul, and he struck the spear into the wall. And David fled and slipped away on that night.


## 1 Samuel 19:11 (id: 909019011)

11And Saul sent messengers to the house of David to watch him and to put him to death in the morning. And Michal his wife told David, saying, “If you do not save your life tonight, tomorrow you will be put to death.”


## 1 Samuel 19:12 (id: 909019012)

12And Michal lowered David out through the window. And he went and fled and slipped away.


## 1 Samuel 19:13 (id: 909019013)

13And Michal took the household idol and put it on the bed. And she put a quilt of the goats at the place of its head. And she covered it with the clothes.


## 1 Samuel 19:14 (id: 909019014)

14And Saul sent messengers to take David. And she said, “He is sick.”


## 1 Samuel 19:15 (id: 909019015)

15And Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, “Bring him up to me in the bed to put him to death.”


## 1 Samuel 19:16 (id: 909019016)

16And the messengers came, and behold, the household idol was on the bed! And the quilt of the goats was at the place of its head.


## 1 Samuel 19:17 (id: 909019017)

17And Saul said to Michal, “Why have you deceived me like so and sent away my enemy, so that he slipped away?” And Michal said to Saul, “He himself said to me, ‘Send me away. Why should I put you to death?’”


## 1 Samuel 19:18 (id: 909019018)

18Now David fled and slipped away and came to Samuel in the Ramah and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and stayed in Naioth.


## 1 Samuel 19:19 (id: 909019019)

19And it was told to Saul, saying, “Behold, David is in Naioth in the Ramah.”


## 1 Samuel 19:20 (id: 909019020)

20And Saul sent messengers to take David. And they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel was standing, stationed over them. And the Spirit of God was on the messengers of Saul and they also prophesied.


## 1 Samuel 19:21 (id: 909019021)

21And they told Saul and he sent other messengers and they also prophesied. And Saul did again and sent messengers a third time, and they also prophesied.


## 1 Samuel 19:22 (id: 909019022)

22And he went, he also, to the Ramah and came as far as the great cistern that is in Seku. And he asked and said, “Where are Samuel and David?” And one said, “Behold, in Naioth in the Ramah.”


## 1 Samuel 19:23 (id: 909019023)

23And he went there to Naioth in the Ramah. And the Spirit of God was on him, him also, and he went along and he prophesied until he entered in Naioth in the Ramah.


## 1 Samuel 19:24 (id: 909019024)

24And he also stripped off his clothes and he also prophesied before the face of Samuel. And he lay naked all that day and all the night. Therefore they said, “Is Saul also among the prophets?”


## 1 Samuel 20:1 (id: 909020001)

1And David fled from Naioth in the Ramah. And he came and said before the face of Jonathan, “What have I done? What is my iniquity? And what is my sin before the face of your father, that he is seeking my life?”


## 1 Samuel 20:2 (id: 909020002)

2And he said to him, “Far from it! You will not die. Behold, my father does not do a great thing or a small thing and not uncover my ear. And why would my father hide this thing from me? There is not this!”


## 1 Samuel 20:3 (id: 909020003)

3And David swore again and said, “Your father surely knows that I have found favor in your eyes. And he said, ‘Do not let Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved.’ But indeed, as Yahweh is alive, and as your soul is alive, surely between me and death is like a step!”


## 1 Samuel 20:4 (id: 909020004)

4And Jonathan said to David, “Whatever your self says, I will do for you.”


## 1 Samuel 20:5 (id: 909020005)

5And David said to Jonathan, “Behold, the new moon is tomorrow, and surely I should sit with the king to eat. But you shall send me away and I will hide myself in the field until the third evening.


## 1 Samuel 20:6 (id: 909020006)

6If your father misses me at all, then you shall say, ‘David earnestly asked from me to run to Bethlehem, his city, for the sacrifice of the days is there for all the clan.’


## 1 Samuel 20:7 (id: 909020007)

7If thus he says, ‘Good,’ peace is for your servant. But if it burns intensely for him, know that the evil is completed from with him.


## 1 Samuel 20:8 (id: 909020008)

8And you shall do covenant faithfulness with your servant. For you have brought your servant into a covenant of Yahweh with you. But if there is iniquity in me, put me to death yourself. And why should you bring me as far as your father?”


## 1 Samuel 20:9 (id: 909020009)

9And Jonathan said, “Far be it for you! For if I ever know that the evil has been completed from with my father to come on you, then will I not tell it to you?”


## 1 Samuel 20:10 (id: 909020010)

10And David said to Jonathan, “Who will tell me if what your father answers you is harsh?”


## 1 Samuel 20:11 (id: 909020011)

11And Jonathan said to David, “Come and let us go out to the field.” And the two of them went out to the field.


## 1 Samuel 20:12 (id: 909020012)

12And Jonathan said to David, “By Yahweh the God of Israel, surely I will sound out my father around this time tomorrow, or the third. If behold, good is to David, then will I not then send to you and uncover your ear?


## 1 Samuel 20:13 (id: 909020013)

13Thus may Yahweh do to Jonathan and thus may he add if the evil on you is good to my father and I do not uncover your ear and send you away, so you may go in peace! And may Yahweh be with you just as he was with my father.


## 1 Samuel 20:14 (id: 909020014)

14And if I am still alive, then you will do the covenant faithfulness of Yahweh with me, and I will not die.


## 1 Samuel 20:15 (id: 909020015)

15And you shall not cut off your covenant faithfulness from with my house until eternity, not even when Yahweh cuts off the enemies of David, a man from on the face of the ground.”


## 1 Samuel 20:16 (id: 909020016)

16And Jonathan cut with the house of David, “And may Yahweh seek from the hand of the enemies of David!”


## 1 Samuel 20:17 (id: 909020017)

17And Jonathan caused David to swear again because he loved him. For he loved him like the loving of his self.


## 1 Samuel 20:18 (id: 909020018)

18And Jonathan said to him, “Tomorrow is the new moon. And you will be missed because your seat will be missing.


## 1 Samuel 20:19 (id: 909020019)

19And the third day you shall go down greatly and come to the place there where you hid yourself on the day of the deed. And you shall stay beside the stone Ezel.


## 1 Samuel 20:20 (id: 909020020)

20And as for me, I will shoot three arrows to the side of it, as sending forth for me to a target.


## 1 Samuel 20:21 (id: 909020021)

21And behold, I will send the boy, ‘Go find the arrows.’ If I say clearly to the boy, ‘Behold, the arrows are on this side from you; take them,’ then come; for peace is for you and there is no matter, as Yahweh is alive.


## 1 Samuel 20:22 (id: 909020022)

22But if I say thus to the boy, ‘Behold, the arrows are beyond from you,’ go, for Yahweh has sent you away.


## 1 Samuel 20:23 (id: 909020023)

23As for the word which I and you have spoken, behold, Yahweh is between me and you until eternity.”


## 1 Samuel 20:24 (id: 909020024)

24And David hid himself in the field. And it was the new moon, and the king sat at the food to eat.


## 1 Samuel 20:25 (id: 909020025)

25And the king sat on his seat, as time by time, on the seat by the wall. And Jonathan rose, and Abner sat by the side of Saul. And the place of David was missing.


## 1 Samuel 20:26 (id: 909020026)

26And Saul did not speak anything on that day, for he said, “It is an accident. He is not clean, surely not clean.”


## 1 Samuel 20:27 (id: 909020027)

27And it happened on the next day of the new moon, the second, that the place of David was missing. And Saul said to Jonathan his son, “Why has the son of Jesse not come to the food both yesterday and today?”


## 1 Samuel 20:28 (id: 909020028)

28And Jonathan answered Saul, “David earnestly asked from with me as far as Bethlehem.


## 1 Samuel 20:29 (id: 909020029)

29And he said, ‘Please send me away. For the sacrifice of our clan is in the city, and he, my brother, has commanded me. And now, if I have found favor in your eyes, please let me slip away and let me see my brothers.’ Therefore he has not come to the table of the king.”


## 1 Samuel 20:30 (id: 909020030)

30And the nose of Saul burned against Jonathan, and he said to him, “Son of a perverse, rebellious woman! Do I not know that you are choosing the son of Jesse to your shame, and to the shame of the nakedness of your mother?


## 1 Samuel 20:31 (id: 909020031)

31For all the days that the son of Jesse lives on the earth, you and your kingdom will not be established. And now, send and take him to me, for he is a son of death.”


## 1 Samuel 20:32 (id: 909020032)

32And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and he said to him, “Why should he be put to death? What has he done?”


## 1 Samuel 20:33 (id: 909020033)

33And Saul hurled the spear at him to strike him down. And Jonathan knew that it was completed from with his father to put David to death.


## 1 Samuel 20:34 (id: 909020034)

34And Jonathan rose from with the table with a burning nose. And he did not eat food on the second day of the new moon, for he was grieved for David, because his father had dishonored him.


## 1 Samuel 20:35 (id: 909020035)

35And it happened in the morning, that Jonathan went out to the field to the appointment with David. And a small boy was with him.


## 1 Samuel 20:36 (id: 909020036)

36And he said to his boy, “Run, find now the arrows that I am about to shoot.” The boy ran and he shot the arrow to pass over him.


## 1 Samuel 20:37 (id: 909020037)

37And the boy came as far as the place of the arrow that Jonathan had shot. And Jonathan called after the boy and said, “Is not the arrow beyond from you?”


## 1 Samuel 20:38 (id: 909020038)

38And Jonathan called after the boy, “Quickly hurry! Do not stay!” And the boy of Jonathan picked up the arrows and came to his master.


## 1 Samuel 20:39 (id: 909020039)

39Now the boy did not know anything. Only Jonathan and David knew the matter.


## 1 Samuel 20:40 (id: 909020040)

40And Jonathan gave his weapons to the boy who was for him. And he said to him, “Go, bring to the city.”


## 1 Samuel 20:41 (id: 909020041)

41The boy went, and David rose from beside the south, and fell before his face to the ground, and bowed three times. And they kissed, a man with his companion. And they wept, a man with his companion, until David did the most.


## 1 Samuel 20:42 (id: 909020042)

42And Jonathan said to David, “Go in peace, because we, the two of us, have sworn in the name of Yahweh, saying, ‘Yahweh is between me and you, and between my seed and your seed until eternity.’” And he rose and went, and Jonathan came to the city.


## 1 Samuel 21:1 (id: 909021001)

1And David came to Nob to Ahimelech the priest. And Ahimelech trembled to meet David and said to him, “Why are you by yourself and there is no man with you?”


## 1 Samuel 21:2 (id: 909021002)

2And David said to Ahimelech the priest, “The king has commanded me with a matter and has said to me, ‘Do not let a man know anything about the matter which I am sending you, and which I have commanded you.’ And I have caused the young men to know about a certain place, a certain one.


## 1 Samuel 21:3 (id: 909021003)

3And now what is there under your hand? Give five bread loaves into my hand, or the found thing.”


## 1 Samuel 21:4 (id: 909021004)

4And the priest answered David and said, “There is no common bread toward under my hand. But there is the holy bread, if the young men have kept themselves only from women.”


## 1 Samuel 21:5 (id: 909021005)

5And David answered the priest and said to him, “Surely a woman has been kept away with respect to us as yesterday and three days ago, as whenever I have gone out. And the vessels of the men have been holy, even though it was a common journey. And how much more today will it be holy with the vessels!”


## 1 Samuel 21:6 (id: 909021006)

6And the priest gave to him the holy thing. For bread was not there except the bread of the face, which was removed from before the face of Yahweh, in order to put hot bread on the day it was taken away.


## 1 Samuel 21:7 (id: 909021007)

7Now a man from the servants of Saul was there on that day, he was detained before the face of Yahweh. And his name was Doeg the Edomite, a powerful one of the herders who were for Saul.


## 1 Samuel 21:8 (id: 909021008)

8And David said to Ahimelech, “Now is there not here under your hand a spear or sword? For both my sword and my weapons I did not take in my hand, because the matter of the king was urgent.”


## 1 Samuel 21:9 (id: 909021009)

9And the priest said, “The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you struck down in the valley of Elah, behold, it is wrapped in the cloak behind the ephod. If you want to take it for yourself, take, for there is no other except it in this place.” And David said, “There is none like it. Give it to me.”


## 1 Samuel 21:10 (id: 909021010)

10And David rose and fled on that day from the face of Saul. And he came to Achish the king of Gath.


## 1 Samuel 21:11 (id: 909021011)

11And the servants of Achish said to him, “Is this not David the king of the land? Did they not sing with respect to this one in the dances, saying, ‘Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands?’”


## 1 Samuel 21:12 (id: 909021012)

12And David put these words in his heart and was very afraid from the face of Achish the king of Gath.


## 1 Samuel 21:13 (id: 909021013)

13And he changed his behavior in their eyes and pretended to be insane in their hand. And he made marks on the doors of the gate and caused his saliva to go down to his beard.


## 1 Samuel 21:14 (id: 909021014)

14And Achish said to his servants, “Behold, you see a man being insane. Why did you bring him to me?


## 1 Samuel 21:15 (id: 909021015)

15Do I lack insane men, so that you have brought this one to be insane near me? Should this one enter into my house?”


## 1 Samuel 22:1 (id: 909022001)

1And David went from there and slipped away to the cave of Adullam. And his brothers and all the house of his father heard, and they went down there to him.


## 1 Samuel 22:2 (id: 909022002)

2And they gathered to him: every man of distress, and every man for whom was a creditor, and every man bitter of spirit. And he became commander over them. And they were with him, about 400 men.


## 1 Samuel 22:3 (id: 909022003)

3And David went from there to Mizpah of Moab. And he said to the king of Moab, “Please let my father and my mother go out with you until when I know what God will do for me.”


## 1 Samuel 22:4 (id: 909022004)

4And he led them into the face of the king of Moab. And they stayed with him all the days of David being in the stronghold.


## 1 Samuel 22:5 (id: 909022005)

5And Gad the prophet said to David, “Do not stay in the stronghold. Go and come for yourself to the land of Judah.” And David went and came to the forest of Hereth.


## 1 Samuel 22:6 (id: 909022006)

6And Saul heard that David was known, and the men who were with him. Now Saul was sitting in the Gibeah under the tamarisk tree on the height, and his spear was in his hand, and all his servants were stationed beside him.


## 1 Samuel 22:7 (id: 909022007)

7And Saul said to his servants who were stationed beside him, “Listen now, Benjaminites! Will the son of Jesse give fields and vineyards even to all of you? Will he make all of you commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds?


## 1 Samuel 22:8 (id: 909022008)

8For all of you have conspired against me! And there was no uncovering my ear when my son cut with the son of Jesse. And there was no grieving from you for me or uncovering my ear that my son has raised up my servant against me to lie in ambush as this day.”


## 1 Samuel 22:9 (id: 909022009)

9And Doeg the Edomite answered (now he was stationed beside the servants of Saul) and said, “I saw the son of Jesse. He came to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.


## 1 Samuel 22:10 (id: 909022010)

10And he inquired of Yahweh for him, and he gave provisions to him. And he gave to him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.”


## 1 Samuel 22:11 (id: 909022011)

11And the king sent to call Ahimelech the son of Ahitub the priest and all the house of his father, the priests who were in Nob. And all of them came to the king.


## 1 Samuel 22:12 (id: 909022012)

12And Saul said, “Listen now, son of Ahitub.” And he said, “Here I am, my master.”


## 1 Samuel 22:13 (id: 909022013)

13And Saul said to him, “Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse, by your giving to him bread, and a sword, and inquiring of God for him, to rise up against me, to lie in ambush, as this day?”


## 1 Samuel 22:14 (id: 909022014)

14And Ahimelech answered the king and said, “Now who among all your servants is faithful like David, the son\-in\-law of the king, and commander over your guards, and is honored in your house?


## 1 Samuel 22:15 (id: 909022015)

15Did I begin to inquire of God for him today? Far be it for me! Do not let the king set a word against his servant, against all the house of my father. For your servant does not know of any of this, small matter or great.”


## 1 Samuel 22:16 (id: 909022016)

16And the king said, “You will surely die, Ahimelech, you and all the house of your father!”


## 1 Samuel 22:17 (id: 909022017)

17And the king said to the ones who run, the ones who were stationed beside him, “Turn around and put to death the priests of Yahweh, because their hand also is with David, and because they knew that he was fleeing, but did not uncover my ear.” But the servants of the king were not willing to send forth their hand to attack the priests of Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 22:18 (id: 909022018)

18And the king said to Doeg, “You turn around and attack the priests!” And Doeg the Edomite turned around and he himself attacked the priests. And on that day he put to death 85 men who carried the linen ephod.


## 1 Samuel 22:19 (id: 909022019)

19And Nob, the city of the priests, he struck down by the mouth of the sword, from man and as far as woman, from child and as far as infant, and ox and donkey and sheep by the mouth of the sword.


## 1 Samuel 22:20 (id: 909022020)

20And one son of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub slipped away, and his name was Abiathar. And he fled after David.


## 1 Samuel 22:21 (id: 909022021)

21And Abiathar told David that Saul had slain the priests of Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 22:22 (id: 909022022)

22And David said to Abiathar, “I knew on that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I myself have turned around against all the life of the house of your father!


## 1 Samuel 22:23 (id: 909022023)

23Stay with me, do not be afraid. For who seeks my life seeks your life. Surely you will be kept safe with me.”


## 1 Samuel 23:1 (id: 909023001)

1And they told David, saying, “Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah and they are plundering the threshing floors.”


## 1 Samuel 23:2 (id: 909023002)

2And David inquired of Yahweh, saying, “Should I go and strike these Philistines?” And Yahweh said to David, “Go and strike the Philistines and save Keilah.”


## 1 Samuel 23:3 (id: 909023003)

3And the men of David said to him, “Behold, we are afraid here in Judah. And the more so if we go to Keilah against the ranks of the Philistines!”


## 1 Samuel 23:4 (id: 909023004)

4And David did yet again inquire of Yahweh. And Yahweh answered him and said, “Rise, go down to Keilah, for I am about to give the Philistines into your hand.”


## 1 Samuel 23:5 (id: 909023005)

5And David and his men went to Keilah and fought with the Philistines. And he drove off their livestock and struck them a great blow. And David saved those who dwelled in Keilah.


## 1 Samuel 23:6 (id: 909023006)

6And it happened that when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David at Keilah an ephod came down in his hand.


## 1 Samuel 23:7 (id: 909023007)

7And it was told to Saul that David had gone to Keilah. And Saul said, “God has alienated him into my hand. For he has shut himself in by entering into a city of doors and a bar.”


## 1 Samuel 23:8 (id: 909023008)

8And Saul caused all the people to hear for the battle, to go down to Keilah, to lay seige against David and against his men.


## 1 Samuel 23:9 (id: 909023009)

9And David knew that Saul was plotting evil against him. And he said to Abiathar the priest, “Bring near the ephod.”


## 1 Samuel 23:10 (id: 909023010)

10And David said, “Yahweh, the God of Israel, your servant has certainly heard that Saul is seeking to come to Keilah, to destroy the city because of me.


## 1 Samuel 23:11 (id: 909023011)

11Will the masters of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? Will Saul come down, just as your servant has heard? Yahweh, the God of Israel, please tell your servant.” And Yahweh said, “He will come down.”


## 1 Samuel 23:12 (id: 909023012)

12And David said, “Will the masters of Keilah deliver me and my men up into the hand of Saul?” And Yahweh said, “They will deliver up.”


## 1 Samuel 23:13 (id: 909023013)

13And David and his men, about 600 men, rose and went out from Keilah, and they walked about in wherever they could walk about. And it was told to Saul that David had slipped away from Keilah, and he stopped going out.


## 1 Samuel 23:14 (id: 909023014)

14And David stayed in the wilderness in the strongholds, and he stayed in the hill country in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him all the days, but God did not give him into his hand.


## 1 Samuel 23:15 (id: 909023015)

15And David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. Now David was in the wilderness of Ziph in the wood.


## 1 Samuel 23:16 (id: 909023016)

16And Jonathan the son of Saul rose and went to David at the wood. And he strengthened his hand in God.


## 1 Samuel 23:17 (id: 909023017)

17And he said to him, “Do not be afraid, for the hand of Saul my father will not find you. As for you, you will reign over Israel, but I will be as second to you. And even Saul my father knows so.”


## 1 Samuel 23:18 (id: 909023018)

18And the two of them cut a covenant before the face of Yahweh. And David stayed in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.


## 1 Samuel 23:19 (id: 909023019)

19And Ziphites went up to Saul at the Gibeah, saying, “Is not David hiding himself among us in the strongholds in the wood, on the hill of the Hakilah, which is south of the Jeshimon?


## 1 Samuel 23:20 (id: 909023020)

20And now, the king, according to all the desire of your soul to come down, come down! And it is for us to deliver him up into the hand of the king.”


## 1 Samuel 23:21 (id: 909023021)

21And Saul said, “May you be blessed by Yahweh. For you have had compassion on me.


## 1 Samuel 23:22 (id: 909023022)

22Go now, confirm again, and know, and see his place where his foot is. Who has seen him there? For one has said to me, ‘He is very crafty.’


## 1 Samuel 23:23 (id: 909023023)

23And see and know of all the hiding places there where he hides himself. And return to me with certain information, and I will go with you. And it will happen that if there is he in the land, then I will search for him in all the thousands of Judah.”


## 1 Samuel 23:24 (id: 909023024)

24And they rose and went to Ziph before the face of Saul. Now David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the Arabah, to the south of the Jeshimon.


## 1 Samuel 23:25 (id: 909023025)

25And Saul and his men went to seek. And they told David, and he went down to the crag and stayed in the wilderness of Maon. And Saul heard and pursued after David from the wilderness of Maon.


## 1 Samuel 23:26 (id: 909023026)

26And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men were on that side of the mountain. And it happened that David was hurrying away to go from the face of Saul. And Saul and his men were circling in on David and on his men to capture them.


## 1 Samuel 23:27 (id: 909023027)

27And a messenger came to Saul, saying, “Hurry and go, for the Philistines have raided against the land.”


## 1 Samuel 23:28 (id: 909023028)

28And Saul returned from pursuing after David and went to meet the Philistines. Therefore they called that place the crag of the divisions.


## 1 Samuel 23:29 (id: 909023029)

29And David went up from there and stayed in the strongholds of Engedi.


## 1 Samuel 24:1 (id: 909024001)

1And it happened when Saul returned from after the Philistines, that they told him, saying, “Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.”


## 1 Samuel 24:2 (id: 909024002)

2And Saul took 3, 000 men chosen from all Israel. And he went to seek David and his men on the face of the rocks of the wild goats.


## 1 Samuel 24:3 (id: 909024003)

3And he came to the pens of the sheep on the way, and a cave was there. And Saul entered to cover his feet. Now David and his men were sitting in the innermost part of the cave.


## 1 Samuel 24:4 (id: 909024004)

4And the men of David said to him, “Behold, today is what Yahweh said to you, ‘Behold, I am about to give your enemy into your hand, and you will do to him as is good in your eyes.’” And David rose and cut off the edge of the robe which belonged to Saul in secrecy.


## 1 Samuel 24:5 (id: 909024005)

5And it happened after thus that the heart of David struck him because he had cut off the edge, which belonged to Saul.


## 1 Samuel 24:6 (id: 909024006)

6And he said to his men, “Far be it for me from Yahweh if I do this thing to my master, to the anointed one of Yahweh, to stretch out my hand against him. For he is the anointed one of Yahweh.”


## 1 Samuel 24:7 (id: 909024007)

7And David divided his men with the words and did not give them to rise against Saul. And Saul rose from the cave and went in the way.


## 1 Samuel 24:8 (id: 909024008)

8And David rose after thus and went out from the cave. And he called out behind Saul, saying, “My master the king!” And Saul looked behind him, and David bowed, nostrils to the ground, and he bowed down.


## 1 Samuel 24:9 (id: 909024009)

9And David said to Saul, “Why do you listen to the words of a man, saying, ‘Behold, David is seeking your harm?’


## 1 Samuel 24:10 (id: 909024010)

10Behold, this day your eyes have seen that Yahweh gave you into my hand today in the cave. And some said to slay you, but it looked on you with compassion. And I said, ‘I will not stretch out my hand against my master, for he is the anointed one of Yahweh.’


## 1 Samuel 24:11 (id: 909024011)

11And see, my father, even see the edge of your robe in my hand! For when I cut off the edge of your robe I did not slay you. Know and see that there is no evil or transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against you, and you are lying in wait to take my life.


## 1 Samuel 24:12 (id: 909024012)

12May Yahweh judge between you and me, and may Yahweh avenge me against you, but my hand will not be against you.


## 1 Samuel 24:13 (id: 909024013)

13As the proverb of the ancients says, ‘From the wicked ones goes out wickedness.’ But my hand will not be against you.


## 1 Samuel 24:14 (id: 909024014)

14After whom does the king of Israel come out? After whom are you pursuing? After a dead dog? After one flea?


## 1 Samuel 24:15 (id: 909024015)

15And may Yahweh become judge and judge between me and you. And may he see and argue my case and judge me out of your hand.”


## 1 Samuel 24:16 (id: 909024016)

16And it happened as soon as David had finished speaking these words to Saul, that Saul said, “Is this your voice, my son David?” And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.


## 1 Samuel 24:17 (id: 909024017)

17And he said to David, “You are more righteous than I. For you did good to me, but I did evil to you.


## 1 Samuel 24:18 (id: 909024018)

18And you have declared today that you have done good with me, that Yahweh delivered me into your hand but you did not slay me.


## 1 Samuel 24:19 (id: 909024019)

19And if a man finds his enemy, will he send him away on the good way? And may Yahweh reward you with good in return for what you have done for me this day.


## 1 Samuel 24:20 (id: 909024020)

20And now, behold, I know that you will surely reign and the kingdom of Israel will rise in your hand.


## 1 Samuel 24:21 (id: 909024021)

21And now, swear to me by Yahweh, that you will not cut off my seed after me, and that you will not destroy my name from the house of my father.”


## 1 Samuel 24:22 (id: 909024022)

22And David swore to Saul. And Saul went to his house, and David and his men went up on the stronghold.


## 1 Samuel 25:1 (id: 909025001)

1And Samuel died, and all Israel gathered and mourned for him, and they buried him in his house in the Ramah. And David rose and went down to the wilderness of Paran.


## 1 Samuel 25:2 (id: 909025002)

2Now a man was in Maon and his work was in the Carmel, and the man was very great. And for him were 3, 000 sheep and 1, 000 goats. And he was shearing his sheep in the Carmel.


## 1 Samuel 25:3 (id: 909025003)

3And the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife was Abigail. Now the woman was good of insight and beautiful of form. But the man was harsh and evil of deeds, and he was a Calebite.


## 1 Samuel 25:4 (id: 909025004)

4And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.


## 1 Samuel 25:5 (id: 909025005)

5And David sent ten young men. And David said to the young men, “Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and ask him in my name with respect to well\-being.


## 1 Samuel 25:6 (id: 909025006)

6And you shall say thus, ‘To life! And peace to you and peace to your house and peace to all that is for you.


## 1 Samuel 25:7 (id: 909025007)

7And now, I have heard that those who shear belong to you. Now the shepherds who belong to you have been with us. We have not harmed them and not anything of them was missing all the days of their being in the Carmel.


## 1 Samuel 25:8 (id: 909025008)

8Ask your young men and they will tell you. And let the young men find favor in your eyes, for we have come on a good day. Please give whatever your hand finds to your servants and to your son, to David.’”


## 1 Samuel 25:9 (id: 909025009)

9And the young men of David came, and they spoke to Nabal according to all these words in the name of David. And they rested.


## 1 Samuel 25:10 (id: 909025010)

10And Nabal answered the servants of David. And he said, “Who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? Today there are many servants who are breaking away, a man from the face of his master.


## 1 Samuel 25:11 (id: 909025011)

11And should I take my bread and my water and my slaughtered thing that I have slaughtered for my ones who shear, and give it to men whom I do not know where they are from?”


## 1 Samuel 25:12 (id: 909025012)

12And the young men of David turned to their way. And they returned and came and told him according to all these words.


## 1 Samuel 25:13 (id: 909025013)

13And David said to his men, “Strap on a man his sword.” And they strapped on, a man his sword. And David also strapped on his sword. And about 400 men went up behind David, and 200 stayed with the things.


## 1 Samuel 25:14 (id: 909025014)

14But one young man from the young men told Abigail the wife of Nabal, saying, “Behold, David sent messengers from the wilderness to bless our master, and he screamed at them.


## 1 Samuel 25:15 (id: 909025015)

15But the men were very good to us. And we were not harmed and did not miss anything all the days of our going about with them when we were in the field.


## 1 Samuel 25:16 (id: 909025016)

16They were a wall for us both night and day, all the days of our being with them tending the sheep.


## 1 Samuel 25:17 (id: 909025017)

17And now know and see what you should do, for evil is determined against our master and against all his house. And he is a son of worthlessness from speaking to him.”


## 1 Samuel 25:18 (id: 909025018)

18And Abigail hurried and took 200 bread loaves and two skins of wine and five prepared sheep and five seah of roasted grain and 100 bunches of raisins and 200 cakes of figs. And she put them on the donkeys.


## 1 Samuel 25:19 (id: 909025019)

19And she said to her young men, “Pass over before my face. Behold, I will come behind you.” But she did not tell her husband Nabal.


## 1 Samuel 25:20 (id: 909025020)

20And she was riding on the donkey and going down in the cover of the mountain, and behold, David and his men were coming down to meet her! And she encountered them.


## 1 Samuel 25:21 (id: 909025021)

21Now David had said, “Surely for a lie have I kept all that is for this one in the wilderness, and not anyhing was missed from all that is for him. And he has returned to me evil in place of good.


## 1 Samuel 25:22 (id: 909025022)

22Thus may God do to the enemies of David and thus may he add, if I leave over until the morning any who are for him who urinate against the wall!”


## 1 Samuel 25:23 (id: 909025023)

23And Abigail saw David, and she hurried and got down from on the donkey. And fell before the face of David on her face and bowed down to the ground.


## 1 Samuel 25:24 (id: 909025024)

24And she fell on his feet and said, “On me myself, my master, be the iniquity. Please let your female servant speak in your ears, and hear the words of your female servant.


## 1 Samuel 25:25 (id: 909025025)

25Please do not let my master set his heart against this man of worthlessness, against Nabal, for as his name is, so he is. Nabal is his name, and senselessness is with him. But I your female servant did not see the young men of my master, whom you sent.


## 1 Samuel 25:26 (id: 909025026)

26And now, my master, as Yahweh is alive, and as your spirit is alive, it is Yahweh who has witheld you from entering into bloodshed and your hand saving for yourself. And now may your enemies and the ones who seek evil against my master be like Nabal.


## 1 Samuel 25:27 (id: 909025027)

27And now let this blessing that your female servant has brought to my master be given to the young men, the ones going about at the feet of my master.


## 1 Samuel 25:28 (id: 909025028)

28Please lift up the transgression of your female servant! For Yahweh will certainly make my master a sure house, because my master is fighting the battles of Yahweh. And evil will not be found in you from your days.


## 1 Samuel 25:29 (id: 909025029)

29If a man rises up to pursue you and to seek your life, then the life of my master will be bound in the bundle of the living ones by Yahweh your God. And he will sling away the life of your enemies in the midst of the palm of the sling.


## 1 Samuel 25:30 (id: 909025030)

30And it will happen that when Yahweh does for my master according to all the good that he spoke concerning you, and has appointed you for a ruler over Israel,


## 1 Samuel 25:31 (id: 909025031)

31then this will not become an obstacle for you or a stumbling block of heart for my master, or as the pouring out of blood without cause, or as my master saving himself. And Yahweh will do good for my master, and you will remember your female servant.”


## 1 Samuel 25:32 (id: 909025032)

32And David said to Abigail, “May Yahweh, the God of Israel, be blessed, who sent you this day to meet me.


## 1 Samuel 25:33 (id: 909025033)

33And blessed be your discernment and blessed be you, who have witheld me this day from entering into bloodshed and my hand saving for myself!


## 1 Samuel 25:34 (id: 909025034)

34But indeed, as Yahweh is alive, the God of Israel is he who has witheld me from doing evil to you. For if you had not hurried and come to meet me, surely there would not have been left over for Nabal until the light of the morning one who urinates against a wall.”


## 1 Samuel 25:35 (id: 909025035)

35And David took from her hand what she had brought to him. And to her he said, “Go up in peace to your house. See, I have listened to your voice and have lifted up your face.”


## 1 Samuel 25:36 (id: 909025036)

36And Abigail came to Nabal, and behold, for him was a feast in his house, like the feast of a king. And the heart of Nabal was good with him and he was drunk to abundance. And she did not tell him a thing small or great until the light of the morning.


## 1 Samuel 25:37 (id: 909025037)

37And it happened in the morning, when the wine had gone out from Nabal, that his wife told him these things. And his heart died in his inner part and he became a stone.


## 1 Samuel 25:38 (id: 909025038)

38And it was about ten days then Yahweh struck Nabal and he died.


## 1 Samuel 25:39 (id: 909025039)

39And David heard that Nabal had died, and he said, “Blessed be Yahweh, who has argued the case of my reproach from the hand of Nabal and has witheld his servant from evil. And Yahweh has returned the evil of Nabal on his head.” And David sent and spoke with Abigail, to take her for himself for a wife.


## 1 Samuel 25:40 (id: 909025040)

40And the servants of David came to Abigail at the Carmel. And they spoke to her, saying, “David has sent us to you to take you for him for a wife.”


## 1 Samuel 25:41 (id: 909025041)

41And she rose and bowed down, nostrils to the earth, and she said, “Behold, your female servant is as a slave woman for washing the feet of the servants of my master.”


## 1 Samuel 25:42 (id: 909025042)

42And Abigail hurried and rose and rode on the donkey, and five of her servant girls were going to her feet. And she went behind the messengers of David and became a wife for him.


## 1 Samuel 25:43 (id: 909025043)

43And David took Ahinoam from Jezreel. And the two of them both became wives for him.


## 1 Samuel 25:44 (id: 909025044)

44Now Saul had given Michal his daughter, the wife of David, to Paltiel the son of Laish, who was from Gallim.


## 1 Samuel 26:1 (id: 909026001)

1And the Ziphites came to Saul at the Gibeah, saying, “Is not David hiding himself in the hill of the Hakilah, on the face of the Jeshimon?”


## 1 Samuel 26:2 (id: 909026002)

2And Saul rose and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, and with him were 3, 000 men, chosen ones of Israel, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.


## 1 Samuel 26:3 (id: 909026003)

3And Saul camped in the hill of the Hakilah, which is on the face of the Jeshimon, by the road. But David was staying in the wilderness and he saw that Saul was coming after him to the wilderness.


## 1 Samuel 26:4 (id: 909026004)

4And David sent spies and he knew that Saul had certainly come.


## 1 Samuel 26:5 (id: 909026005)

5And David rose and came to the place there where Saul had camped. And David saw the place there where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the commander of his army. And Saul lay in the entrenchment, and the people were camped around him.


## 1 Samuel 26:6 (id: 909026006)

6And David answered and said to Ahimelech the Hittite and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, the brother of Joab, saying, “Who will go down with me to Saul, to the camp?” And Abishai said, “I! I will go down with you.”


## 1 Samuel 26:7 (id: 909026007)

7And David and Abishai came to the people at night. And behold, Saul lie asleep in the entrenchment, and his spear was pressed into the ground at the place of his head. And Abner and the people were lying around him.


## 1 Samuel 26:8 (id: 909026008)

8And Abishai said to David, “Today God has delivered your enemy into your hand. And now please let me strike him with the spear even into the earth one time. And I will not do it again to him.”


## 1 Samuel 26:9 (id: 909026009)

9And David said to Abishai, “Do not destroy him. For who has stretched out his hand against the anointed one of Yahweh and been innocent?”


## 1 Samuel 26:10 (id: 909026010)

10And David said, “As Yahweh is alive, surely Yahweh will strike him, or his day will come and he will die, or he will go down into the battle and be swept away.


## 1 Samuel 26:11 (id: 909026011)

11Far be it for me from Yahweh to stretch out my hand against the anointed one of Yahweh. And now, please take the spear that is at the place of his head and the jug of water, and let us go for ourselves.”


## 1 Samuel 26:12 (id: 909026012)

12And David took the spear and the jug of water from the place of the head of Saul, and they went for themselves. And there was no one who saw, and there was no one who knew, and there was no one who awoke, for all of them were sleeping, because a deep sleep of Yahweh had fallen on them.


## 1 Samuel 26:13 (id: 909026013)

13And David passed over to the other side and stood on the head of the mountain from a distance. Great was the distance between them.


## 1 Samuel 26:14 (id: 909026014)

14And David called out to the people and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, “Will you not answer, Abner?” And Abner answered and said, “Who are you who calls out to the king?”


## 1 Samuel 26:15 (id: 909026015)

15And David said to Abner, “Are you not a man? And who is like you in Israel? But why did you not watch over your master the king? For one of the people came to destroy the king your master.


## 1 Samuel 26:16 (id: 909026016)

16This thing that you have done is not good. As Yahweh is alive, surely sons of death are you who did not watch over your master, over the anointed one of Yahweh. And now see, where is the spear of the king and the jar of water that was at the place of his head?”


## 1 Samuel 26:17 (id: 909026017)

17And Saul recognized the voice of David and said, “Is this your voice, my son David?” And David said, “It is my voice, my master the king.”


## 1 Samuel 26:18 (id: 909026018)

18And he said, “Why is my master pursuing after his servant? For what have I done? And what evil is in my hand?


## 1 Samuel 26:19 (id: 909026019)

19And now, please hear, my master the king, the words of his servant. If Yahweh has incited you against me, may he smell an offering; but if the sons of the man, cursed be them before the face of Yahweh. For they have today driven me out from joining oneself with the inheritance of Yahweh, saying, ‘Go serve other gods.’


## 1 Samuel 26:20 (id: 909026020)

20And now, do not let my blood fall to the earth from in front of the face of Yahweh. For the king of Israel has come out to seek one flea just as one pursues the partridge in the mountains.”


## 1 Samuel 26:21 (id: 909026021)

21And Saul said, “I have sinned! Return, my son David! For I will not do evil to you again, because my life was precious in your eyes this day. Behold, I have acted foolishly and have gone very much astray!”


## 1 Samuel 26:22 (id: 909026022)

22And David answered and said, “Behold, the spear of the king! And let one of the young men pass over and take it.


## 1 Samuel 26:23 (id: 909026023)

23And may Yahweh return to the man his righteousness and his faithfulness; because Yahweh gave you into a hand today, but I was not willing to stretch out my hand against the anointed one of Yahweh.


## 1 Samuel 26:24 (id: 909026024)

24And behold, just as your life was great in my eyes this day, so may my life be great in the eyes of Yahweh, and may he rescue me from all distress.”


## 1 Samuel 26:25 (id: 909026025)

25And Saul said to David, “Blessed be you, my son David! You will certainly both do and also you will certainly be able.” And David went to his way, and Saul returned to his place.


## 1 Samuel 27:1 (id: 909027001)

1And David said to his heart, “Now I will be swept away one day by the hand of Saul. There is no good thing for me, but I will certainly slip away to the land of the Philistines. And Saul will despair of me, of seeking me again in all the territory of Israel, and I will slip away from his hand.”


## 1 Samuel 27:2 (id: 909027002)

2And David rose and passed over, he and 600 men who were with him, to Achish the son of Maok, the king of Gath.


## 1 Samuel 27:3 (id: 909027003)

3And David dwelled with Achish in Gath, he and his men, a man and his house, David and the two of his wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelite woman and Abigail the Carmelite woman, the wife of Nabal.


## 1 Samuel 27:4 (id: 909027004)

4And it was told to Saul that David had fled to Gath. And he did not again seek him more.


## 1 Samuel 27:5 (id: 909027005)

5And David said to Achish, “If I have found favor in your eyes, let them give to me a place in one of the cities of the field, and I may dwell there. And why should your servant dwell in the city of the kingship with you?”


## 1 Samuel 27:6 (id: 909027006)

6And on that day Achish gave to him Ziklag. Therefore Ziklag belongs to the kings of Judah until this day.


## 1 Samuel 27:7 (id: 909027007)

7And the number of the days that David dwelled in the field of the Philistines was days and four months.


## 1 Samuel 27:8 (id: 909027008)

8And David and his men went up and raided against the Geshurites and the Girzites and the Amalekites. For they were dwelling in the land, which is from ancient times, as you go to Shur, and as far as the land of Egypt.


## 1 Samuel 27:9 (id: 909027009)

9And David struck the land and did not let a man or a woman live. And he took sheep and cattle and donkeys and camels and garments. And he returned and came to Achish.


## 1 Samuel 27:10 (id: 909027010)

10And Achish said, “Against whom did you raid today?” And David said, “Against the south of Judah and against the south of the Jerahmeelite and against the south of the Kenite.”


## 1 Samuel 27:11 (id: 909027011)

11Now David did not let a man or a woman live to bring to Gath, saying, “Lest they tell about us, saying, ‘Thus did David.’” And thus was his custom all the days that he dwelled in the field of the Philistines.


## 1 Samuel 27:12 (id: 909027012)

12And Achish trusted in David, saying, “He certainly stinks among his people in Israel, and he will become an eternal servant for me.”


## 1 Samuel 28:1 (id: 909028001)

1And it happened in those days that the Philistines gathered their camps for the war to fight with Israel. And Achish said to David, “You certainly know that you will go out with me in the camp, you and your men.”


## 1 Samuel 28:2 (id: 909028002)

2And David said to Achish, “Therefore, you yourself will know what your servant can do.” And Achish said to David, “Therefore, I will appoint you the keeper of my head all the days.”


## 1 Samuel 28:3 (id: 909028003)

3Now Samuel had died, and all Israel had mourned for him and had buried him in the Ramah, even in his city. And Saul had removed the necromancers and the ones with familiar spirits from the land.


## 1 Samuel 28:4 (id: 909028004)

4And the Philistines gathered and came and camped at Shunem. And Saul gathered all Israel, and they camped at the Gilboa.


## 1 Samuel 28:5 (id: 909028005)

5And Saul saw the camp of the Philistines. And he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.


## 1 Samuel 28:6 (id: 909028006)

6And Saul inquired of Yahweh, but Yahweh did not answer him—neither by the dreams, nor by the Urim, nor by the prophets.


## 1 Samuel 28:7 (id: 909028007)

7And Saul said to his servants, “Seek for me a woman of a mistress of necromancy, so I may go to her and inquire of her.” And his servants said to him, “Behold, a woman of a mistress of necromancy is in Endor.”


## 1 Samuel 28:8 (id: 909028008)

8And Saul disguised himself, and put on other clothes, and went, he and two of the men with him. And they came to the woman at night. And he said, “Please practice divination for me with a spirit of the dead, and bring up for me whom I say to you.”


## 1 Samuel 28:9 (id: 909028009)

9And the woman said to him, “Behold, you yourself know what Saul has done, that he has cut off the necromancers and the ones with a familiar spirit from the land. And why are you setting a trap against my life, to put me to death?”


## 1 Samuel 28:10 (id: 909028010)

10And Saul swore to her by Yahweh, saying, “As Yahweh is alive, no punishment will meet you by this matter.”


## 1 Samuel 28:11 (id: 909028011)

11And the woman said, “Whom will I bring up for you?” And he said, “Bring up Samuel for me.”


## 1 Samuel 28:12 (id: 909028012)

12And the woman saw Samuel and cried out with a loud voice. And the woman said to Saul, saying, “Why did you deceive me? And you are Saul!”


## 1 Samuel 28:13 (id: 909028013)

13And the king said to her, “Do not be afraid, but what did you see?” And the woman said to Saul, “I saw gods going up from the earth.”


## 1 Samuel 28:14 (id: 909028014)

14And he said to her, “What is his appearance?” And she said, “An old man is coming up and he is wrapped in a robe.” And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he bowed, nostrils to the ground, and he bowed down.


## 1 Samuel 28:15 (id: 909028015)

15And Samuel said to Saul, “Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up?” And Saul said, “It is very narrow for me, and the Philistines are about to fight against me. And God has turned aside from on me and does not answer me anymore, neither by the hand of the prophets, nor by the dreams, so I have called to you, to cause me to know what I will do.”


## 1 Samuel 28:16 (id: 909028016)

16And Samuel said, “And why do you ask me while Yahweh has turned aside from on you and has become your enemy?


## 1 Samuel 28:17 (id: 909028017)

17And Yahweh has done for himself just as he spoke by my hand. And Yahweh has torn the kingdom from your hand and has given it to your companion, to David.


## 1 Samuel 28:18 (id: 909028018)

18Because you did not listen to the voice of Yahweh and did not perform the burning of his nose against Amalek, therefore Yahweh has done this thing to you this day.


## 1 Samuel 28:19 (id: 909028019)

19And Yahweh will also give Israel with you into the hand of the Philistines, and tomorrow you and your sons will be with me. Yahweh will also give the camp of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.”


## 1 Samuel 28:20 (id: 909028020)

20And Saul immediately fell with the fullness of his height to the ground and was very afraid from the words of Samuel. Also strength was not in him, for he had not eaten bread all the day and all the night.


## 1 Samuel 28:21 (id: 909028021)

21And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was very terrified, And she said to him, “Behold, your female servant has listened to your voice and I have put my life in my palm and have heard the words that you have spoken to me.


## 1 Samuel 28:22 (id: 909028022)

22And now, please listen, even you, to the voice of your female servant, and let me set a bit of bread before your face and eat. And strength will be in you when you go in the way.”


## 1 Samuel 28:23 (id: 909028023)

23And he refused and said, “I will not eat.” But his servants and also the woman, urged him, and he listened to their voice. And he rose from the ground and sat on the bed.


## 1 Samuel 28:24 (id: 909028024)

24Now a calf of the stall belonged to the woman in the house, and she hurried and sacrificed it. And she took flour and kneaded and baked it to unleavened bread.


## 1 Samuel 28:25 (id: 909028025)

25And she brought it near before the face of Saul and before the face of his servants, and they ate. And they rose and went in that night.


## 1 Samuel 29:1 (id: 909029001)

1And the Philistines gathered all their camp at Aphek. And Israel was camping at the spring that is in Jezreel.


## 1 Samuel 29:2 (id: 909029002)

2And the rulers of the Philistines were passing over by hundreds and by thousands. And David and his men were passing over in the rear with Achish.


## 1 Samuel 29:3 (id: 909029003)

3And the commanders of the Philistines said, “What are these Hebrews?” And Achish said to the commanders of the Philistines, “Is this not David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, who has been with me these days or these years, and I have not found anything in him from the day of his falling until this day?”


## 1 Samuel 29:4 (id: 909029004)

4And the commanders of the Philistines were furious against him. And the commanders of the Philistines said to him, “Make the man return, that he may return to his place there where you assigned him. And he will not go down with us in the battle, and he will not become an adversary for us in the battle. And by what could this one make himself acceptable to his master? Is it not by the heads of these men?


## 1 Samuel 29:5 (id: 909029005)

5Is this not David of whom they sang in the dances, saying, ‘Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands’?”


## 1 Samuel 29:6 (id: 909029006)

6And Achish called to David and said to him, “As Yahweh is alive, surely you are upright, and your going out and your coming in with me in the camp is good in my eyes, for I have not found evil in you from the day of your coming to me until this day. But in the eyes of the rulers you are not good.


## 1 Samuel 29:7 (id: 909029007)

7And now return and go in peace, so you do not do evil in the eyes of the rulers of the Philistines.”


## 1 Samuel 29:8 (id: 909029008)

8And David said to Achish, “But what have I done? And what have you found in your servant from the day when I was before your face until this day, that I may not come and fight against the enemies of my master the king?”


## 1 Samuel 29:9 (id: 909029009)

9And Achish answered and said to David, “I know that you are good in my eyes like a messenger of God. Nevertheless, the commanders of the Philistines have said, ‘He must not go up with us in the battle.’


## 1 Samuel 29:10 (id: 909029010)

10And now rise early in the morning with the servants of your master who came with you. And you shall rise early in the morning with light for you and go.”


## 1 Samuel 29:11 (id: 909029011)

11And David rose early, he and his men, to go in the morning, to return to the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.


## 1 Samuel 30:1 (id: 909030001)

1And it happened, when David and his men came to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had raided against the Negev and against Ziklag. And they had struck Ziklag and had burned it with fire.


## 1 Samuel 30:2 (id: 909030002)

2And they had taken captive the women who were in it, from small and as far as great. They had not put a man to death, but had led them away and went to their way.


## 1 Samuel 30:3 (id: 909030003)

3And David and his men came to the city, and behold, it was burned with fire! And their wives and their sons and their daughters had been taken captive.


## 1 Samuel 30:4 (id: 909030004)

4And David and the people who were with him lifted up their voices and wept until there was no strength in them to weep.


## 1 Samuel 30:5 (id: 909030005)

5And the two of the wives of David had been taken captive, Ahinoam the Jezreelite woman and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.


## 1 Samuel 30:6 (id: 909030006)

6And it was very narrow for David, for the people said to stone him, for the spirit of all the people was bitter, a man for his sons and for his daughters. And David strengthened himself in Yahweh, his God.


## 1 Samuel 30:7 (id: 909030007)

7And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, “Please bring near to me the ephod.” And Abiathar brought near to David the ephod.


## 1 Samuel 30:8 (id: 909030008)

8And David inquired of Yahweh, saying, “If I pursue after this troop, will I overtake it?” And he said to him, “Pursue, for you will certainly overtake and you will certainly rescue.”


## 1 Samuel 30:9 (id: 909030009)

9And David went, he and the 600 men who were with him, and they came as far as the wadi of the Besor. And the ones who were left behind stayed.


## 1 Samuel 30:10 (id: 909030010)

10And David pursued, he and 400 men. And 200 men stayed, who were too exhausted to pass over the wadi of the Besor.


## 1 Samuel 30:11 (id: 909030011)

11And they found an Egyptian man in the field and took him to David. And they gave to him bread, and he ate. And they caused him to drink water.


## 1 Samuel 30:12 (id: 909030012)

12And they gave to him a slice of a fig cake and two raisin clusters, and he ate and his spirit returned to him. For he had not eaten bread and had not drunk water three days and three nights.


## 1 Samuel 30:13 (id: 909030013)

13And David said to him, “To whom do you belong? And where are you from?” And he said, “I am an Egyptian young man, a slave of a man of the Amalekite. And my master left me because three days ago I became sick.


## 1 Samuel 30:14 (id: 909030014)

14We raided the Negev of the Kerethites, and against what belongs to Judah, and against the Negev of Caleb. And we burned Ziklag with fire.”


## 1 Samuel 30:15 (id: 909030015)

15And David said to him, “Will you bring me down to this troop?” And he said, “Swear to me by God that you will not put me to death and not deliver me into the hand of my master, and I will bring you down to this troop.”


## 1 Samuel 30:16 (id: 909030016)

16And he brought him down, and behold, they were spread out over the face of all the land, eating and drinking and celebrating because of all the great spoil that they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah.


## 1 Samuel 30:17 (id: 909030017)

17And David struck them down from the twilight and until the evening of their next day. And a man did not slip away from them except for 400 men, young men who rode on the camels and fled.


## 1 Samuel 30:18 (id: 909030018)

18And David rescued all that Amalek had taken. And David rescued the two of his wives.


## 1 Samuel 30:19 (id: 909030019)

19And it was not missing for them from small and as far as great and as far as sons and daughters and from spoil and as far as all that they had taken for themselves. David brought back everything.


## 1 Samuel 30:20 (id: 909030020)

20And David took all the sheep and the cattle. They drove before the face of that livestock, and said, “This is the spoil of David.”


## 1 Samuel 30:21 (id: 909030021)

21And David came to the 200 men who had been too exhausted to go behind David, and they had caused them to stay at the wadi of the Besor. And they went out to meet David and to meet the people who were with him. And David came near the people and asked them with respect to well\-being.


## 1 Samuel 30:22 (id: 909030022)

22And all the evil and worthless men from the men who had gone with David answered and said, “Because they did not go with us, we will not give to them from the spoil that we have rescued, except a man his wife and his sons, that they may lead away and go.”


## 1 Samuel 30:23 (id: 909030023)

23And David said, “You shall not do so, my brothers, with what Yahweh has given to us. And he has kept us and given into our hand the troop who came against us.


## 1 Samuel 30:24 (id: 909030024)

24And who will listen to you with respect to this matter? For as is the portion of the one who went down in the battle, so shall be the portion of the one who stayed with the things. They shall be apportioned together.”


## 1 Samuel 30:25 (id: 909030025)

25And it happened from that day and beyond, that he set it for a statute and for a custom for Israel, until this day.


## 1 Samuel 30:26 (id: 909030026)

26And David came to Ziklag and sent some of the spoil to the elders of Judah, to his companions, saying, “Behold, a blessing for you: some of the spoil of the enemies of Yahweh.”


## 1 Samuel 30:27 (id: 909030027)

27It was for he who was in Bethel and for he who was in Ramoth of the South and for he who was in Jattir


## 1 Samuel 30:28 (id: 909030028)

28and for he who was in Aroer and for he who was in Siphmoth and for he who was in Eshtemoa


## 1 Samuel 30:29 (id: 909030029)

29and for he who was in Rakal and for he who was in the cities of the Jerahmeelite and for he who was in the cities of the Kenite


## 1 Samuel 30:30 (id: 909030030)

30and for he who was in Hormah and for he who was in Bor Ashan and for he who was in Athak


## 1 Samuel 30:31 (id: 909030031)

31and for he who was in Hebron and for all the places there where David walked about, he and his men.


## 1 Samuel 31:1 (id: 909031001)

1Now the Philistines were fighting against Israel. And the men of Israel fled from before the face of the Philistines and they fell pierced on Mount Gilboa.


## 1 Samuel 31:2 (id: 909031002)

2And the Philistines stuck close to Saul and his sons. And the Philistines struck down Jonathan and Abinadab and Malki\-Shua, the sons of Saul.


## 1 Samuel 31:3 (id: 909031003)

3And the battle was heavy against Saul and the archers, the men with the bow, found him. And he writhed in pain greatly because of the archers.


## 1 Samuel 31:4 (id: 909031004)

4And Saul said to the one who carried his equipment, “Draw out your sword and pierce me through with it, lest these uncircumcised ones come and pierce me through and deal severely with me.” But the one who carried his equipment was not willing, for he was very afraid. And Saul took the sword and fell on it.


## 1 Samuel 31:5 (id: 909031005)

5And the one who carried his equipment saw that Saul had died. And he fell, he also, on his sword and died with him.


## 1 Samuel 31:6 (id: 909031006)

6And Saul died and the three of his sons and the one who carried his equipment, even all his men together on that day.


## 1 Samuel 31:7 (id: 909031007)

7And the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley and who were on the other side of the Jordan saw that the men of Israel had fled, and that Saul and his sons had died. And they left their cities and fled. And the Philistines came and dwelled in them.


## 1 Samuel 31:8 (id: 909031008)

8And it happened from the next day, that the Philistines came to strip the pierced ones. And they found Saul and the three of his sons fallen on Mount Gilboa.


## 1 Samuel 31:9 (id: 909031009)

9And they cut off his head and stripped off his equipment. And they sent into the land of the Philistines all around to bring news to the house of their idols and to the people.


## 1 Samuel 31:10 (id: 909031010)

10And they put his equipment in the house of the Ashtoreths. And they thrust his corpse on the wall of Beth Shan.


## 1 Samuel 31:11 (id: 909031011)

11And those who dwelled in Jabesh Gilead heard about it, what the Philistines had done to Saul.


## 1 Samuel 31:12 (id: 909031012)

12And all the men of strength rose and went all the night and took the corpse of Saul and the corpses of his sons from the wall of Beth Shan. And they went to Jabesh and burned them there.


## 1 Samuel 31:13 (id: 909031013)

13And they took their bones and buried them under the tamarisk tree in Jabesh. And they fasted seven days.


