# unfoldingWord Literal

## License Information

**unfoldingWord Literal** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Literal Text_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Song of Songs 1:1 (id: 922001001)

1The Song of Songs which {is} of Solomon.


## Song of Songs 1:2 (id: 922001002)

2Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth, for better {is} your love than wine.


## Song of Songs 1:3 (id: 922001003)

3As for the smell of your oils—{they are} good; oil poured out {is} your name. Therefore, marriageable women love you.


## Song of Songs 1:4 (id: 922001004)

4Draw me after you; let us run. The king has brought me {to} his bedroom.


## Song of Songs 1:5 (id: 922001005)

5I {am} black, but lovely, daughters of Jerusalem, like the tents of Kedar, like the curtains of Solomon.


## Song of Songs 1:6 (id: 922001006)

6Do not look at me, that I {am} black, that the sun scorched me. The sons of my mother were angry with me; they appointed me {as} keeper of the vineyards— my vineyard that {is} mine, I have not kept.


## Song of Songs 1:7 (id: 922001007)

7Declare to me, {you} whom my soul loves: where do you graze? Where do you make {your flocks} lie down at noontime? For why should I be like a woman who covers herself beside the flocks of your companions?


## Song of Songs 1:8 (id: 922001008)

8If you do not know, most beautiful among women, go out in the footprints of the flock, and pasture your young goats beside the tents of the shepherds.


## Song of Songs 1:9 (id: 922001009)

9To a mare among the chariots of Pharaoh I liken you, my darling.


## Song of Songs 1:10 (id: 922001010)

10Your cheeks are beautiful with earrings; your neck {is beautiful} with necklaces.


## Song of Songs 1:11 (id: 922001011)

11Earrings of gold we will make for you, with studs of silver.


## Song of Songs 1:12 (id: 922001012)

12While the king {was} on his couch, my nard gave off its smell.


## Song of Songs 1:13 (id: 922001013)

13A bundle of myrrh {is} my beloved to me; between my breasts it stays.


## Song of Songs 1:14 (id: 922001014)

14A cluster of henna blossoms {is} my beloved to me, in the vineyards of Engedi.


## Song of Songs 1:15 (id: 922001015)

15Behold you! {You are} beautiful, my darling. Behold you! {You are} beautiful; your eyes {are} doves.


## Song of Songs 1:16 (id: 922001016)

16Behold you! (You are} handsome, my beloved, truly pleasant. Indeed, our couch is leafy.


## Song of Songs 1:17 (id: 922001017)

17The beams of our house {are} cedars; our rafters {are} pine.


## Song of Songs 2:1 (id: 922002001)

1I {am} a flower of Sharon, a lily of the valleys.


## Song of Songs 2:2 (id: 922002002)

2Like a lily among thorns, so {is} my darling among the daughters.


## Song of Songs 2:3 (id: 922002003)

3Like an apple tree among the trees of the forest, so {is} my beloved among the sons. In his shadow I took delight, and I sat, and his fruit {is} sweet to my palate.


## Song of Songs 2:4 (id: 922002004)

4He brought me to the house of wine and his banner over me {is} love.


## Song of Songs 2:5 (id: 922002005)

5Sustain me with raisin cakes; refresh me with apples, for sick with love {am} I!


## Song of Songs 2:6 (id: 922002006)

6His left hand {is} under my head, and his right hand embraces me.


## Song of Songs 2:7 (id: 922002007)

7I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem, by the female gazelles or the does of the field, do not awaken nor stir love until it desires.


## Song of Songs 2:8 (id: 922002008)

8The voice of my beloved! Behold, this one is coming, leaping over the mountains, jumping over the hills.


## Song of Songs 2:9 (id: 922002009)

9My beloved is resembling a gazelle or a young stag. Behold, this one is standing behind our wall, gazing through the windows, looking through the lattices.


## Song of Songs 2:10 (id: 922002010)

10My beloved answered and said to me, “Get up, my darling, my beauty, and come,


## Song of Songs 2:11 (id: 922002011)

11for, behold, the winter has gone; the rain has passed; it went away.


## Song of Songs 2:12 (id: 922002012)

12The blossoms have appeared in the land; the time of the song has arrived, and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.


## Song of Songs 2:13 (id: 922002013)

13The fig tree ripens its green figs, and the vines {are in} blossom; they give off a smell. Get up, come, my darling, my beauty, and come.


## Song of Songs 2:14 (id: 922002014)

14My dove, in the clefts of the rock, in the hiding places of the cliff, show me your appearance, make me hear your voice, for your voice {is} sweet, and your appearance {is} lovely.


## Song of Songs 2:15 (id: 922002015)

15Catch the foxes for us, the little foxes that destroy the vineyards, and our vineyards {are in} blossom.


## Song of Songs 2:16 (id: 922002016)

16My beloved {belongs} to me and I {belong} to him, the man grazing among the lilies.


## Song of Songs 2:17 (id: 922002017)

17Until the day breathes and the shadows flee, turn; resemble, my beloved, a gazelle or a young stag on the mountains of Bether.


## Song of Songs 3:1 (id: 922003001)

1On my bed in the night I sought him whom my soul loves; I sought him, but I did not find him.


## Song of Songs 3:2 (id: 922003002)

2I will get up now and go about in the city, in the streets and in the squares; I will seek him whom my soul loves. I sought him, but I did not find him.


## Song of Songs 3:3 (id: 922003003)

3The guards going about in the city found me: “{Have} you seen him whom my soul loves?”


## Song of Songs 3:4 (id: 922003004)

4Hardly had I passed by them when I found him whom my soul loves. I held him and I would not let him go until I had brought him to the house of my mother and to the room of the woman who conceived me.


## Song of Songs 3:5 (id: 922003005)

5I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem, by the female gazelles or the does of the field, do not awaken nor stir love until it desires.


## Song of Songs 3:6 (id: 922003006)

6Who {is} that coming up from the wilderness like columns of smoke, fragrant smoke of myrrh and frankincense, from all the powders of the merchant?


## Song of Songs 3:7 (id: 922003007)

7Behold—his litter, which {belongs} to Solomon; 60 warriors surround it, from the warriors of Israel.


## Song of Songs 3:8 (id: 922003008)

8All of them are grasping a sword, studied {in} war. Each one {has} his sword at his thigh, against the terrors in the nights.


## Song of Songs 3:9 (id: 922003009)

9He made for himself a palanquin, King Solomon, from the trees of Lebanon.


## Song of Songs 3:10 (id: 922003010)

10He made its posts {out of} silver; its back, gold; its seat, purple cloth. Its interior was fitted {with} love from the daughters of Jerusalem.


## Song of Songs 3:11 (id: 922003011)

11Go out and look, daughters of Zion, at King Solomon, at the crown with which his mother crowned him on the day of his wedding, on the day of the joy of his heart.


## Song of Songs 4:1 (id: 922004001)

1Behold you! {You are} beautiful, my darling. Behold you! {You are} beautiful. Your eyes {are} doves from behind your veil. Your hair {is} like a flock of goats that hop down from {the} slopes of Gilead.


## Song of Songs 4:2 (id: 922004002)

2Your teeth {are} like a flock of shorn {sheep} that have come up from the washing, all of which bear twins, and there is not among them one which is bereaved.


## Song of Songs 4:3 (id: 922004003)

3Like a thread of scarlet {are} your lips, and your mouth {is} lovely. Like a slice of pomegranate {are} your cheeks from behind your veil.


## Song of Songs 4:4 (id: 922004004)

4Like the tower of David {is} your neck, built of layers— a thousand shields hanging on it, all the shields of the warriors.


## Song of Songs 4:5 (id: 922004005)

5Your two breasts {are} like two fawns, twins of a female gazelle, the ones pasturing among the lilies.


## Song of Songs 4:6 (id: 922004006)

6Until the day breathes and the shadows flee, I myself will go to the mountain of myrrh and to the hill of frankincense.


## Song of Songs 4:7 (id: 922004007)

7All of you {is} beautiful, my darling, and there is no blemish in you.


## Song of Songs 4:8 (id: 922004008)

8{Come} with me from Lebanon, {my} bride; come with me from Lebanon. Descend from the top of Amana, from the top of Senir and Hermon, from the hiding places of lions, from the mountains of leopards.


## Song of Songs 4:9 (id: 922004009)

9You have enchanted my heart, my sister, {my} bride; you have enchanted my heart with one {look} from your eyes, with one jewel from your necklace.


## Song of Songs 4:10 (id: 922004010)

10How your love is beautiful, my sister, {my} bride! How your love {is} better than wine and the smell of your oils {is better} than all spices!


## Song of Songs 4:11 (id: 922004011)

11Your lips drip {with} nectar, {my} bride; honey and milk {are} under your tongue and the smell of your garments {is} like the smell of Lebanon.


## Song of Songs 4:12 (id: 922004012)

12A locked garden {is} my sister, {my} bride, a locked spring, a sealed fountain.


## Song of Songs 4:13 (id: 922004013)

13Your shoots {are} an orchard of pomegranate trees with delicious fruits, henna with nard,


## Song of Songs 4:14 (id: 922004014)

14nard and saffron, calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense, myrrh and aloes, with all the best spices,


## Song of Songs 4:15 (id: 922004015)

15a fountain of gardens, a well of living waters, and flowing streams from Lebanon.


## Song of Songs 4:16 (id: 922004016)

16Awake, north wind, and come, south wind; blow on my garden and let its spices flow. Let my beloved come to his garden


## Song of Songs 5:1 (id: 922005001)

1I have come to my garden, my sister, {my} bride; I have plucked my myrrh with my spice. I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey; I have drunk my wine with my milk.


## Song of Songs 5:2 (id: 922005002)

2I {am} asleep, but my heart {is} awake. A sound—my beloved is knocking: “Open to me, my sister, my darling, my dove, my perfect one, because my head {is} full of dew, my hair {is full of} the drops of the night.”


## Song of Songs 5:3 (id: 922005003)

3“I have taken off my robe; how will I put it on? I have washed my feet; how could I get them dirty?”


## Song of Songs 5:4 (id: 922005004)

4My beloved stretched out his hand through the hole and my belly roared concerning him.


## Song of Songs 5:5 (id: 922005005)

5I got myself up to open to my beloved and my hands dripped {with} myrrh and my fingers {dripped with} flowing myrrh on the hands of the bolt.


## Song of Songs 5:6 (id: 922005006)

6I myself opened to my beloved, but my beloved had turned and gone. My soul went out because he departed. I searched for him, but I did not find him; I called him, but he did not answer me.


## Song of Songs 5:7 (id: 922005007)

7The guards going about in the city found me. They beat me and wounded me; they lifted my shawl from me, the guards of the walls.


## Song of Songs 5:8 (id: 922005008)

8I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, what will you declare to him? {Declare to him} that sick {with} love {am} I.


## Song of Songs 5:9 (id: 922005009)

9What {is} your beloved more than {another} beloved, most beautiful among women? What {is} your beloved more than {another} beloved, that thus you adjure us?


## Song of Songs 5:10 (id: 922005010)

10My beloved {is} shimmering and red, distinguished among ten thousand.


## Song of Songs 5:11 (id: 922005011)

11His head {is} gold, refined gold; his hairs {are} wavy, black like the raven.


## Song of Songs 5:12 (id: 922005012)

12His eyes {are} like doves beside stream beds of water, bathing in milk, sitting beside the pools.


## Song of Songs 5:13 (id: 922005013)

13His cheeks {are} like a bed of spices, towers of herbal spices. His lips {are} lilies, dripping {with} flowing myrrh.


## Song of Songs 5:14 (id: 922005014)

14His arms {are} rods of gold mounted with topaz; his belly {is} a plate of ivory covered {with} sapphires.


## Song of Songs 5:15 (id: 922005015)

15His thighs {are} pillars of alabaster set on bases of refined gold; his appearance {is} like Lebanon, {as} choice as the cedars.


## Song of Songs 5:16 (id: 922005016)

16His mouth {is} most sweet, and all of him {is} most desirable. This {is} my beloved, and this {is} my friend, daughters of Jerusalem.


## Song of Songs 6:1 (id: 922006001)

1Where did he go, your beloved, most beautiful woman among women? Where did he turn, your beloved, and let us seek him with you?


## Song of Songs 6:2 (id: 922006002)

2My beloved went down to his garden, to the beds of spices, in order to graze in the gardens and in order to glean lilies.


## Song of Songs 6:3 (id: 922006003)

3I {belong} to my beloved, and my beloved {belongs} to me; he grazes among the lilies.


## Song of Songs 6:4 (id: 922006004)

4You {are} beautiful, my darling, like Tirzah, lovely like Jerusalem, awe\-inspiring like bannered armies.


## Song of Songs 6:5 (id: 922006005)

5Turn your eyes away from me, because they excite me. Your hair {is} like a flock of goats that hop down from Gilead.


## Song of Songs 6:6 (id: 922006006)

6Your teeth {are} like a flock of ewes that have come up from the washing, all of which bear twins, and there is not among them one which is bereaved.


## Song of Songs 6:7 (id: 922006007)

7Like a slice of a pomegranate {are} your cheeks from behind your veil.


## Song of Songs 6:8 (id: 922006008)

8Sixty {are} they, queens, and eighty concubines, and marriageable women without number.


## Song of Songs 6:9 (id: 922006009)

9One {is} she, my dove; my perfect one—one {is} she to her mother; pure {is} she to the woman who bore her. The daughters saw her and called her blessed; the queens and the concubines—they praised her:


## Song of Songs 6:10 (id: 922006010)

10“Who {is} that, the woman who looks down like {the} dawn, beautiful like the moon, pure like the sun, awe\-inspiring like bannered armies?”


## Song of Songs 6:11 (id: 922006011)

11To the garden of {the} nut tree I went down, to look at the green shoots of the valley, to see—had the vine budded? Had the pomegranates bloomed?


## Song of Songs 6:12 (id: 922006012)

12I did not know—my soul put me {among} the chariots of my people, a noble.


## Song of Songs 6:13 (id: 922006013)

13Return, return, Shulammite, return, return and let us look at you. Why do you look at the Shulammite


## Song of Songs 7:1 (id: 922007001)

1How your feet are beautiful in sandals, daughter of a noble! The curves of your thighs {are} like ornaments, the work of the hands of a craftsman.


## Song of Songs 7:2 (id: 922007002)

2Your navel {is} the rounded bowl— that never lacks spiced wine. Your belly {is} a heap of wheat encircled with the lilies.


## Song of Songs 7:3 (id: 922007003)

3Your two breasts {are} like two fawns, twins of a gazelle.


## Song of Songs 7:4 (id: 922007004)

4Your neck {is} like a tower of ivory. Your eyes {are} pools in Heshbon by the gate of Bath Rabbim. Your nose {is} like the tower of Lebanon, looking {to the} face of Damascus.


## Song of Songs 7:5 (id: 922007005)

5Your head on you {is} like Carmel, and the loose hair of your head {is} like purple; a king is held captive in the tresses.


## Song of Songs 7:6 (id: 922007006)

6How you are beautiful and how you are lovely— love with delights!


## Song of Songs 7:7 (id: 922007007)

7This is your height—it is like a palm tree, and your breasts {like its} clusters.


## Song of Songs 7:8 (id: 922007008)

8I said, “I will go up {the} palm tree; I will grab hold of its fruit stalks.” And, please, let your breasts be like the clusters of the vine, and {let the} smell of your nose {be} like apples,


## Song of Songs 7:9 (id: 922007009)

9and {let} your mouth {be} like the best wine. Going down for my beloved smoothly, gliding over the lips of those who sleep.


## Song of Songs 7:10 (id: 922007010)

10I {belong} to my beloved and his longing {is} for me.


## Song of Songs 7:11 (id: 922007011)

11Come, my beloved, let us go out {to} the fields; let us spend the night in the villages.


## Song of Songs 7:12 (id: 922007012)

12Let us go early to the vineyards; let us see if the vine has budded, {if} the blossoms have opened, {if} the pomegranates have bloomed. There I will give my love to you.


## Song of Songs 7:13 (id: 922007013)

13The mandrakes give off a scent, and over our doors {are} all choice fruits, new ones and also old ones. My beloved, I have stored {these} up for you.


## Song of Songs 8:1 (id: 922008001)

1Who will give you like a brother to me, who nursed at the breasts of my mother? If I found you outside, I would kiss you. Yes, they would not despise me.


## Song of Songs 8:2 (id: 922008002)

2I would lead you; I would bring you to the house of my mother, she {who} taught me. I would make you drink from the wine of spice, from the juice of my pomegranate.


## Song of Songs 8:3 (id: 922008003)

3His left hand {is} under my head and his right hand embraces me.


## Song of Songs 8:4 (id: 922008004)

4I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem, do not awaken and do not stir love until it desires.


## Song of Songs 8:5 (id: 922008005)

5Who {is} that coming up from the wilderness, leaning against her beloved? Under the apple tree I awakened you; there your mother was in labor {with} you; there she was in labor; she gave birth {to} you.


## Song of Songs 8:6 (id: 922008006)

6Place me like the seal on your heart, like the seal on your arm, because strong like death {is} love; unyielding like Sheol {is} zeal. Its flashes {are} flashes of fire, the flame of Yah.


## Song of Songs 8:7 (id: 922008007)

7Many waters are not able to quench {this} love and rivers will not drown it. If a man would give all {the} wealth of his house in exchange for love, they would utterly despise it.


## Song of Songs 8:8 (id: 922008008)

8A sister {belongs} to us—a little one— and breasts there are not for her. What will we do for our sister on the day when it is spoken for her?


## Song of Songs 8:9 (id: 922008009)

9If she {is} a wall, we will build on her a battlement of silver. And if she {is} a door, we will enclose over her boards of cedar.


## Song of Songs 8:10 (id: 922008010)

10I {was} a wall and my breasts {are} like towers; then I was in his eyes like a person who finds peace.


## Song of Songs 8:11 (id: 922008011)

11{There} was a vineyard for Solomon in Baal Hamon. He gave the vineyard to keepers. Each person brought in exchange for its fruit a thousand {pieces of} silver.


## Song of Songs 8:12 (id: 922008012)

12My vineyard that {belongs} to me {is} before me. The thousand {belong} to you, Solomon, and the two hundred {belong} to the people who {are} keepers of its fruit.


## Song of Songs 8:13 (id: 922008013)

13{You} who reside in the gardens; companions are listening intently for your voice— let me hear it.


## Song of Songs 8:14 (id: 922008014)

14Flee, my beloved, and resemble a gazelle or a young stag on the mountains of spices.


