# unfoldingWord Literal

## License Information

**unfoldingWord Literal** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Literal Text_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## 2 John 1:1 (id: 963001001)

1The elder, to the chosen lady and her children, whom I love in truth—and not only I, but also all the ones having known the truth—


## 2 John 1:2 (id: 963001002)

2because of the truth that remains in us and will be with us to eternity.


## 2 John 1:3 (id: 963001003)

3Grace, mercy, {and} peace will be with us from God the Father and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.


## 2 John 1:4 (id: 963001004)

4I rejoiced greatly that I found some of your children walking in truth, just as we have received a commandment from the Father.


## 2 John 1:5 (id: 963001005)

5And now I ask you, lady—not as writing a new commandment to you, but what we have had from the beginning—that we should love one another.


## 2 John 1:6 (id: 963001006)

6And this is that love, that we should walk according to his commandments. This is the commandment, just as you heard from the beginning, that you should walk in it.


## 2 John 1:7 (id: 963001007)

7For many deceivers have gone out into the world, the ones not confessing Jesus Christ coming in flesh. This is the deceiver and the antichrist.


## 2 John 1:8 (id: 963001008)

8Watch yourselves, that you do not lose what we have worked for, but may receive a full reward.


## 2 John 1:9 (id: 963001009)

9Everyone going beyond and not remaining in the teaching of Christ does not have God. The one remaining in the teaching, this one has both the Father and the Son.


## 2 John 1:10 (id: 963001010)

10If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house and do not say to him, “Greetings.”


## 2 John 1:11 (id: 963001011)

11For the one saying to him, “Greetings,” shares in his evil deeds.


## 2 John 1:12 (id: 963001012)

12Having much to write to you, I did not want with paper and ink. However, I hope to come to you and to speak mouth to mouth, so that your joy might be made complete.


## 2 John 1:13 (id: 963001013)

13The children of your chosen sister greet you.


