# unfoldingWord Literal

## License Information

**unfoldingWord Literal** is based on and adapted from: _unfoldingWord® Literal Text_, [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/), 2022, which is licensed under a [CC BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode.en).

This markdown version is provided under the same license.



--------------------------------

## Revelation 1:1 (id: 966001001)

1The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave to him to show to his servants what must happen soon. And he signified, sending through his angel to his servant John,


## Revelation 1:2 (id: 966001002)

2who attested the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ, as much as he saw.


## Revelation 1:3 (id: 966001003)

3Blessed {are} the one reading and the ones hearing the words of this prophecy and keeping the things having been written in it, for the time {is} near.


## Revelation 1:4 (id: 966001004)

4John, to the seven churches in Asia: Grace to you and peace from the one being and the one having been and the one coming and from the seven spirits who {are} before his throne,


## Revelation 1:5 (id: 966001005)

5and from Jesus Christ, “the faithful witness,” “the firstborn” from the dead and “the ruler of the kings of the earth.” To the one loving us and having released us from our sins by his blood


## Revelation 1:6 (id: 966001006)

6and he has made us a kingdom, priests to God and his Father—to him {be} the glory and the power to the ages. Amen.


## Revelation 1:7 (id: 966001007)

7“Behold, he is coming with the clouds,” and “every eye will see him, even those who pierced him,” and all the tribes of the earth “will mourn because of him.” Yes, Amen.


## Revelation 1:8 (id: 966001008)

8“I am the alpha and the omega,” says the Lord God, “the one being and the one having been and the one coming, the Ruler of All.”


## Revelation 1:9 (id: 966001009)

9I, John, your brother and partner in the suffering and kingdom and endurance {that are} in Jesus, was on the island called Patmos because of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.


## Revelation 1:10 (id: 966001010)

10I was in the Spirit on the Lord’s day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet,


## Revelation 1:11 (id: 966001011)

11saying, “Write what you see on a scroll and send it to the seven churches—to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamum and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea.”


## Revelation 1:12 (id: 966001012)

12And I turned around to see the voice that was speaking with me, and having turned, I saw seven golden lampstands,


## Revelation 1:13 (id: 966001013)

13and in the middle of the lampstands {one} like a son of man, wearing a foot\-length robe and a golden sash wrapped around {his} chest.


## Revelation 1:14 (id: 966001014)

14Now his head and hair {were} white as wool—white as snow—and his eyes {were} like a flame of fire,


## Revelation 1:15 (id: 966001015)

15and his feet {were} like bronze as having been refined in a furnace, and his voice {was} like the sound of many waters,


## Revelation 1:16 (id: 966001016)

16and having seven stars in his right hand and a sharp, double\-edged sword coming out of his mouth, and his face as the sun shines in its strength.


## Revelation 1:17 (id: 966001017)

17And when I saw him, I fell at his feet like a dead man, but he placed his right hand on me, saying, “Do not be afraid! I am the first and the last


## Revelation 1:18 (id: 966001018)

18and the one living; and I became dead, but behold, I am living to the ages of the ages, and I have the keys of death and of Hades.


## Revelation 1:19 (id: 966001019)

19Therefore, write what you have seen, and what is, and what is about to happen after these things.


## Revelation 1:20 (id: 966001020)

20The mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand and the seven golden lampstands: The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.


## Revelation 2:1 (id: 966002001)

1To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: ‘The one holding the seven stars in his right hand, the one walking in the midst of the seven golden lampstands, says these things:


## Revelation 2:2 (id: 966002002)

2“I know your works and labor and your endurance and that you can not tolerate evil ones and {that} you have tested the ones calling themselves apostles but are not and you have found them {to be} false


## Revelation 2:3 (id: 966002003)

3and {that} you have endurance and have suffered because of my name and have not grown weary.


## Revelation 2:4 (id: 966002004)

4But I have against you that you have abandoned your first love.


## Revelation 2:5 (id: 966002005)

5Therefore, remember from where you have fallen and repent and do the first works. But if not, I will come to you and I will remove your lampstand from its place—if you do not repent.


## Revelation 2:6 (id: 966002006)

6But you have this, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.


## Revelation 2:7 (id: 966002007)

7Let the one having an ear hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. To the one conquering, I will grant to him to eat from the tree of life that is in the paradise of God.”’


## Revelation 2:8 (id: 966002008)

8And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: ‘The first and the last, who became dead but lived, says these things:


## Revelation 2:9 (id: 966002009)

9“I know your affliction and poverty—but you are rich—and the slander of the ones saying themselves to be Jews, but they are not, but {are} a synagogue of Satan.


## Revelation 2:10 (id: 966002010)

10Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw {some} of you into prison so that you will be tested, and you will have tribulation for ten days. Be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of life.


## Revelation 2:11 (id: 966002011)

11Let the one having an ear hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. The one conquering will certainly not be hurt by the second death.”’


## Revelation 2:12 (id: 966002012)

12And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write: ‘The one having the sharp, double\-edged sword says these thing}:


## Revelation 2:13 (id: 966002013)

13“I know where you live, where the throne of Satan {is}, yet you hold my name and you did not deny my faith even in the days of Antipas my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you, where Satan lives.


## Revelation 2:14 (id: 966002014)

14But I have a few things against you, that you have there ones holding the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to throw a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, to eat idol\-offerings and to be sexually immoral.


## Revelation 2:15 (id: 966002015)

15Thus you also have ones holding the teaching of the Nicolaitans similarly.


## Revelation 2:16 (id: 966002016)

16Repent, therefore! But if not, I will come to you quickly and wage war against them with the sword of my mouth.


## Revelation 2:17 (id: 966002017)

17Let the one having an ear hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. To the one conquering, I will give to him of the hidden manna, and I will give to him a white stone and on the stone a new name written that no one knows except the one receiving it.”’


## Revelation 2:18 (id: 966002018)

18And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: ‘The Son of God, the one having his eyes like a flame of fire and his feet like bronze, says these things:


## Revelation 2:19 (id: 966002019)

19“I know your works and love and faith and service and your endurance, and your last works {are} greater than the first.


## Revelation 2:20 (id: 966002020)

20But I have against you that you tolerate the woman Jezebel, the one calling herself a prophetess, and she teaches and deceives my servants to be sexually immoral and to eat idol\-offerings.


## Revelation 2:21 (id: 966002021)

21And I have given her time so that she might repent, but she is not willing to repent of her immorality.


## Revelation 2:22 (id: 966002022)

22Behold! I will throw her onto a bed, and the ones committing adultery with her into great tribulation, if they do not repent of her deeds.


## Revelation 2:23 (id: 966002023)

23And I will strike her children with death, and all the churches will know that I am the one searching kidneys and hearts, and I will give to each of you according to your deeds.


## Revelation 2:24 (id: 966002024)

24But I say to you, to the rest in Thyatira, to as many as do not hold this teaching, whoever has not known the deep things of Satan, as they call them: ‘I do not put another burden on you,


## Revelation 2:25 (id: 966002025)

25only hold what you have until I come.’


## Revelation 2:26 (id: 966002026)

26And the one conquering and the one keeping my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations.


## Revelation 2:27 (id: 966002027)

27‘And he will rule them with an iron sceptre, as clay jars are shattered,’


## Revelation 2:28 (id: 966002028)

28as I also have received from my Father, and I will give to him the morning star.


## Revelation 2:29 (id: 966002029)

29Let the one having an ear hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches.”’


## Revelation 3:1 (id: 966003001)

1And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: ‘The one having the seven spirits of God and the seven stars says these things: “I know your works, that you have a name that you are alive, but you are dead.


## Revelation 3:2 (id: 966003002)

2Becoming waking and strengthen the remainder that is about to die, for I have not found your works completed before my God.


## Revelation 3:3 (id: 966003003)

3Remember, therefore, how you have received and heard, and be keeping and repent. But if you should not be awake, I will come like a thief and you will certainly not know at what hour I will come against you.


## Revelation 3:4 (id: 966003004)

4But you have a few names in Sardis who have not stained their clothes, and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy.


## Revelation 3:5 (id: 966003005)

5The one conquering will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will certainly not wipe out his name from the Book of Life, but I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.


## Revelation 3:6 (id: 966003006)

6Let the one having an ear hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches.”’


## Revelation 3:7 (id: 966003007)

7And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: ‘The Holy One, the True One, the one having the key of David, the one opening and no one will shut and shutting and no one opens, says these things:


## Revelation 3:8 (id: 966003008)

8“I know your works (behold, I have put before you an opened door that no one is able to shut it), that you have little power, yet you have kept my word and you have not denied my name.


## Revelation 3:9 (id: 966003009)

9Behold, I will give {those} of the synagogue of Satan, the ones saying themselves to be Jews, but they are not, rather, they are lying, behold, I will make them so that they will come and bow down before your feet, and they will know that I have loved you.


## Revelation 3:10 (id: 966003010)

10Because you have kept my word of endurance, I will also keep you from the hour of testing being about to come upon the whole world to test the ones living on the earth.


## Revelation 3:11 (id: 966003011)

11I am coming quickly. Hold what you have so that no one may take your crown.


## Revelation 3:12 (id: 966003012)

12The one conquering, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will certainly not go outside anymore, and I will write on him the name of my God and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, the one coming down out of heaven from my God, and my new name.


## Revelation 3:13 (id: 966003013)

13Let the one having an ear hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches.”’


## Revelation 3:14 (id: 966003014)

14And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write: ‘The Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God, says these things:


## Revelation 3:15 (id: 966003015)

15“I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot. I wish you were cold or hot!


## Revelation 3:16 (id: 966003016)

16So, because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I am about to spew you out of my mouth.


## Revelation 3:17 (id: 966003017)

17For you say, ‘I am rich and have become wealthy and have no need,’ and you do not know that you are the miserable and pitiable and poor and blind and naked one.


## Revelation 3:18 (id: 966003018)

18I advise you to buy from me gold refined by fire so that you might become rich and white garments so that you might clothe yourself and the shame of your nakedness might not be shown and salve to anoint your eyes so that you might see.


## Revelation 3:19 (id: 966003019)

19I, as many as I love, rebuke and discipline. Therefore be zealous and repent.


## Revelation 3:20 (id: 966003020)

20Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone should hear my voice and open the door, I will indeed enter to him and I will eat with him, and he with me.


## Revelation 3:21 (id: 966003021)

21The one conquering, I will grant to him to sit with me on my throne, as I also have conquered and have sat with my Father on his throne.


## Revelation 3:22 (id: 966003022)

22Let the one having an ear hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches.”’”


## Revelation 4:1 (id: 966004001)

1After these things I looked and behold, a door opened in heaven and the first voice like a trumpet that I had heard speaking with me saying, “Come up here and I will show you what must happen after these things.”


## Revelation 4:2 (id: 966004002)

2Immediately I was in the Spirit and behold, a throne was appearing in heaven, and on the throne one sitting.


## Revelation 4:3 (id: 966004003)

3And the one sitting {was} like in appearance to a jasper stone and to a carnelian, and a rainbow {was} around the throne, like in appearance to an emerald.


## Revelation 4:4 (id: 966004004)

4And around the throne {were} 24 thrones, and sitting on the thrones {were} 24 elders dressed in white garments, and on their heads {were} golden crowns.


## Revelation 4:5 (id: 966004005)

5And from the throne come out lightnings and sounds and thunders, and seven lamps of fire burn before the throne, which are the seven spirits of God.


## Revelation 4:6 (id: 966004006)

6And before the throne {was} as a glass sea, like crystal, and in the midst of the throne and around the throne {were} four living creatures, being full of eyes before and behind.


## Revelation 4:7 (id: 966004007)

7And the first living creature {was} like a lion, and the second living creature {was} like a calf, and the third living creature having a face as of a man, and the fourth living creature {was} like a flying eagle.


## Revelation 4:8 (id: 966004008)

8And the four living creatures, each one of them having six wings apiece, being full of eyes around and underneath, indeed do not have rest night and day, saying, “Holy, holy, holy, Lord God, the Ruler of All, the one having been and the one being and the one coming.”


## Revelation 4:9 (id: 966004009)

9And whenever the living creatures will give glory and honor and thanks to the one sitting on the throne, the one living to the ages of the ages,


## Revelation 4:10 (id: 966004010)

10the 24 elders will fall before the one sitting on the throne and worship the one living to the ages of the ages, and they will lay their crowns before the throne, saying,


## Revelation 4:11 (id: 966004011)

11“Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, because you have created all things, and by your will they existed and were created.”


## Revelation 5:1 (id: 966005001)

1And I saw in the right hand of the one sitting on the throne a scroll, written on the inside and on the back, having been sealed with seven seals.


## Revelation 5:2 (id: 966005002)

2And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming in a loud voice, “Who {is} worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals?”


## Revelation 5:3 (id: 966005003)

3And no one in heaven or on the earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to read it.


## Revelation 5:4 (id: 966005004)

4And I was weeping much because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to read it.


## Revelation 5:5 (id: 966005005)

5And one of the elders said to me, “Do not weep. Behold, the Lion from the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has conquered to open the scroll and its seven seals.”


## Revelation 5:6 (id: 966005006)

6And I saw, in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb standing, as having been slaughtered, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent into all the earth.


## Revelation 5:7 (id: 966005007)

7And he came and took {the scroll} from the right hand of the one sitting on the throne.


## Revelation 5:8 (id: 966005008)

8And when he took the scroll, the four living creatures and the 24 elders fell before the Lamb, each one having a harp and golden bowls being full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.


## Revelation 5:9 (id: 966005009)

9And they sing a new song, saying, “You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, because you were slaughtered and with your blood you bought {people} for God from every tribe and language and people and nation.


## Revelation 5:10 (id: 966005010)

10And you made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they will reign on the earth.”


## Revelation 5:11 (id: 966005011)

11And I looked and heard the sound of many angels around the throne and the living creatures and the elders, and the number of them was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands,


## Revelation 5:12 (id: 966005012)

12saying in a loud voice, “Worthy is the Lamb having been slaughtered to receive power and wealth and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and blessing.”


## Revelation 5:13 (id: 966005013)

13And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the sea and everything in them saying, “To the one sitting on the throne and to the Lamb {be} praise and honor and glory and power to the ages of the ages.”


## Revelation 5:14 (id: 966005014)

14And the four living creatures said, “Amen!” and the elders fell down and worshiped.


## Revelation 6:1 (id: 966006001)

1And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying, as with a voice of thunder, “Come!”


## Revelation 6:2 (id: 966006002)

2And I looked and behold, a white horse, and the one sitting on it having a bow! And a crown was given to him, and he went out conquering and that he might conquer.


## Revelation 6:3 (id: 966006003)

3And when he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, “Come!”


## Revelation 6:4 (id: 966006004)

4And another horse, fiery red, came out! And to the one sitting on it, it was granted to him to take peace from the earth, and so that they will slaughter one another, and a great sword was given to him.


## Revelation 6:5 (id: 966006005)

5And when he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, “Come!” And I looked and behold, a black horse, and the one sitting on it having a balance in his hand.


## Revelation 6:6 (id: 966006006)

6And I heard {something} like a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, “A choenix of wheat for a denarius and three choenices of barley for a denarius, but do not harm the oil and the wine.”


## Revelation 6:7 (id: 966006007)

7And when he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying, “Come!”


## Revelation 6:8 (id: 966006008)

8And I looked, and behold, a pale horse! And the one sitting on it was named Death, and Hades was following after him. And authority was given to them over one fourth of the earth, to kill with the sword and with famine and with death and by the wild animals of the earth.


## Revelation 6:9 (id: 966006009)

9And when he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of the ones having been slaughtered because of the word of God and because of the testimony that they were having.


## Revelation 6:10 (id: 966006010)

10And they cried out in a loud voice, saying, “Until when, holy and true Ruler, do you not judge and avenge our blood from the ones living on the earth?”


## Revelation 6:11 (id: 966006011)

11And a white robe was given to each of them, and it was said to them that they should wait yet a little time until should be completed both their fellow servants and their brothers {who} were going to be killed as they also {were}.


## Revelation 6:12 (id: 966006012)

12And I saw when he opened the sixth seal, and a great earthquake happened, and the sun became black, like sackcloth {made} of hair, and the full moon became like blood,


## Revelation 6:13 (id: 966006013)

13and the stars of the sky fell to the earth, as a fig tree drops its unseasonable fruit, being shaken by a great wind.


## Revelation 6:14 (id: 966006014)

14And the sky was split like a scroll being rolled up, and all the mountains and islands were removed from their places.


## Revelation 6:15 (id: 966006015)

15And the kings of the earth and the magnates and the chiliarchs and the rich and the powerful and every slave and free {person} hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains,


## Revelation 6:16 (id: 966006016)

16and they say to the mountains and to the rocks, “Fall on us and hide us from the face of the one sitting on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb,


## Revelation 6:17 (id: 966006017)

17because the great day of their anger has come, and who is able to stand?”


## Revelation 7:1 (id: 966007001)

1After this, I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth so that wind would not blow on the land or on the sea or on any tree.


## Revelation 7:2 (id: 966007002)

2And I saw another angel coming up from the rising of the sun, having the seal of the living God. And he cried in a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to them to harm the earth and the sea,


## Revelation 7:3 (id: 966007003)

3saying, “Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until we might seal the servants of our God on their foreheads.”


## Revelation 7:4 (id: 966007004)

4And I heard the number of the ones having been sealed: 144 thousands, having been sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel:


## Revelation 7:5 (id: 966007005)

5from the tribe of Judah, 12 thousands having been sealed; from the tribe of Reuben, 12 thousands; from the tribe of Gad, 12 thousands;


## Revelation 7:6 (id: 966007006)

6from the tribe of Asher, 12 thousands; from the tribe of Naphtali, 12 thousands; from the tribe of Manasseh, 12 thousands;


## Revelation 7:7 (id: 966007007)

7from the tribe of Simeon, 12 thousands; from the tribe of Levi, 12 thousands; from the tribe of Issachar, 12 thousands;


## Revelation 7:8 (id: 966007008)

8from the tribe of Zebulun, 12 thousands; from the tribe of Joseph, 12 thousands; from the tribe of Benjamin, 12 thousands having been sealed.


## Revelation 7:9 (id: 966007009)

9After these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude that, to number it, no one was able, from every nation and tribe and people and language, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, having been clothed in white robes, and palm branches {were} in their hands,


## Revelation 7:10 (id: 966007010)

10and they cry out in a loud voice, saying, “Salvation {is} to our God, the one sitting on the throne, and to the Lamb!”


## Revelation 7:11 (id: 966007011)

11And all the angels had stood around the throne and the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God,


## Revelation 7:12 (id: 966007012)

12saying, “Amen! Praise and glory and wisdom and thanks and honor and power and strength {be} to our God, to the ages of the ages! Amen!”


## Revelation 7:13 (id: 966007013)

13And one of the elders responded, saying to me, “These, the ones having been clothed in white robes, who are they, and where have they come from?”


## Revelation 7:14 (id: 966007014)

14And I said to him, “My lord, you know.” And he said to me, “These are the ones coming from the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.


## Revelation 7:15 (id: 966007015)

15Because of this they are before the throne of God, and they worship him day and night in his temple. And the one sitting on the throne will tabernacle over them.


## Revelation 7:16 (id: 966007016)

16They will not hunger anymore, nor will they thirst anymore, nor will the sun fall on them at all, nor any heat,


## Revelation 7:17 (id: 966007017)

17because the Lamb at the midst of the throne will shepherd them and guide them to springs of the waters of life, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.”


## Revelation 8:1 (id: 966008001)

1And when he opened the seventh seal, silence happened in heaven for about half an hour.


## Revelation 8:2 (id: 966008002)

2And I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.


## Revelation 8:3 (id: 966008003)

3And another angel came and was stationed at the altar having a golden censer, and much incense was given to him so that he would offer {it} with the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar before the throne.


## Revelation 8:4 (id: 966008004)

4And the smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, rose up before God from the hand of the angel.


## Revelation 8:5 (id: 966008005)

5And the angel took the censer and filled it from the fire of the altar and threw {it} onto the earth, and thunders and sounds and lightnings and an earthquake happened.


## Revelation 8:6 (id: 966008006)

6And the seven angels having the seven trumpets prepared themselves that they might trumpet.


## Revelation 8:7 (id: 966008007)

7And the first trumpeted, and hail happened, and fire, mixed with blood, and it was thrown onto the earth, and a third of the earth was burned up, and a third of the trees were burned up, and all the green grass was burned up.


## Revelation 8:8 (id: 966008008)

8And the second angel trumpeted, and {something} like a great mountain burning with fire was thrown into the sea, and a third of the sea became blood,


## Revelation 8:9 (id: 966008009)

9and a third of the creatures having life in the sea died, and a third of the ships were destroyed.


## Revelation 8:10 (id: 966008010)

10And the third angel trumpeted, and a great star fell from the sky, burning like a torch, and it fell on a third of the rivers and on the springs of waters.


## Revelation 8:11 (id: 966008011)

11And the name of the star is called Wormwood. And a third of the waters became wormwood, and many of the men died from the waters that had been made bitter.


## Revelation 8:12 (id: 966008012)

12And the fourth angel trumpeted, and a third of the sun was struck, and a third of the moon and a third of the stars, so that a third of them were darkened, and the day, a third of it did not shine, and likewise the night.


## Revelation 8:13 (id: 966008013)

13And I looked, and I heard an eagle flying in mid\-heaven saying in a loud voice, “Woe, woe, woe, to the ones living on the earth from the remaining sounds of the trumpet of the three angels who are going to trumpet.”


## Revelation 9:1 (id: 966009001)

1And the fifth angel trumpeted, and I saw a star having fallen from the sky to the earth, and the key of the shaft of the abyss was given to it.


## Revelation 9:2 (id: 966009002)

2And he opened the shaft of the abyss, and smoke went up from the shaft like the smoke of a great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened from the smoke of the shaft.


## Revelation 9:3 (id: 966009003)

3And locusts came from the smoke onto the earth, and power was given to them as scorpions of the earth have power.


## Revelation 9:4 (id: 966009004)

4And it was told to them that they should not harm the grass of the earth or any green plant or any tree, if not the men who did not have the seal of God on {their} foreheads.


## Revelation 9:5 (id: 966009005)

5And it was given to them that they should not kill them, but that they would be tormented for five months and their torment {would be} like the torment of a scorpion when it might strike a man.


## Revelation 9:6 (id: 966009006)

6And in those days, men will seek death, but they will certainly not find it, and they will long to die, but death flees from them.


## Revelation 9:7 (id: 966009007)

7And the appearance of the locusts {was} like horses prepared for war. And on their heads {were something} like crowns resembling gold, and their faces {were} like faces of men.


## Revelation 9:8 (id: 966009008)

8And they had hair like the hair of women, and their teeth were as of lions,


## Revelation 9:9 (id: 966009009)

9and they had breastplates like iron breastplates, and the sound of their wings {was} like the sound of many chariots of horses running into battle.


## Revelation 9:10 (id: 966009010)

10And they have tails and stingers as scorpions do, and in their tails {is} their power to harm men for five months.


## Revelation 9:11 (id: 966009011)

11They have over them a king, the angel of the abyss. His name in Hebrew {is} Abaddon, and in Greek he has the name Apollyon.


## Revelation 9:12 (id: 966009012)

12The first woe has passed. Behold, two woes are still coming after these {things}.


## Revelation 9:13 (id: 966009013)

13And the sixth angel trumpeted, and I heard a voice from the horns of the golden altar before God,


## Revelation 9:14 (id: 966009014)

14saying to the sixth angel, the one having the trumpet, “Release the four angels having been bound at the great river Euphrates.”


## Revelation 9:15 (id: 966009015)

15And the four angels having been prepared for the hour and day and month and year were released so that they might kill a third of men.


## Revelation 9:16 (id: 966009016)

16And the number of the horse soldiers {was} two myriads of myriads; I heard their number.


## Revelation 9:17 (id: 966009017)

17And thus in the vision I saw the horses and the ones riding on them: having fiery and hyacinth and sulfurous breastplates. And the heads of the horses {were} as heads of lions, and from their mouths comes fire and smoke and sulfur.


## Revelation 9:18 (id: 966009018)

18By these three plagues, by the fire and the smoke and the sulfur coming out from their mouths, a third of men were killed.


## Revelation 9:19 (id: 966009019)

19For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails, for their tails {are} like snakes, having heads, and with them they injure.


## Revelation 9:20 (id: 966009020)

20And the rest of men, the ones not killed in these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands, so that they will not worship demons and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood, which are able neither to see nor to hear nor to walk.


## Revelation 9:21 (id: 966009021)

21And they did not repent of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their sexual immorality, nor of their thefts.


## Revelation 10:1 (id: 966010001)

1And I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven clothed in a cloud, with a rainbow above his head and his face like the sun and his feet like pillars of fire


## Revelation 10:2 (id: 966010002)

2and having in his hand an opened little scroll. And he put his right foot on the sea and {his} left on the land,


## Revelation 10:3 (id: 966010003)

3and he shouted in a loud voice, as a lion roars, and when he shouted, the seven thunders spoke their own voices.


## Revelation 10:4 (id: 966010004)

4And when the seven thunders spoke, I was going to write, but I heard a voice from heaven saying, “Seal what the seven thunders said and do not write it.”


## Revelation 10:5 (id: 966010005)

5And the angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land raised his right hand to heaven


## Revelation 10:6 (id: 966010006)

6and swore by the one living to the ages of the ages, who created heaven and the {things} in it and the earth and the {things} in it and the sea and the {things} in it, “There will be no more time,


## Revelation 10:7 (id: 966010007)

7but in the days of the sound of the seventh angel, when he is going to trumpet, then the mystery of God will be accomplished, just as he proclaimed to {his} own servants the prophets.”


## Revelation 10:8 (id: 966010008)

8And the voice that I heard from heaven was speaking with me again and saying: “Go, take the opened scroll in the hand of the angel standing on the sea and on the land.”


## Revelation 10:9 (id: 966010009)

9And I went to the angel, telling him to give the little scroll to me. And he says to me, “Take and eat it, and it will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be sweet like honey.”


## Revelation 10:10 (id: 966010010)

10And I took the little scroll from the hand of the angel and ate it, and it was sweet like honey in my mouth, but when I had eaten it, my stomach was made bitter.


## Revelation 10:11 (id: 966010011)

11And they said to me, “It is necessary for you to prophesy again about many peoples and nations and languages and kings.”


## Revelation 11:1 (id: 966011001)

1And a reed like a measuring rod was given to me, saying, “Get up and measure the temple of God and the altar and the ones worshiping in it.


## Revelation 11:2 (id: 966011002)

2But cast out the courtyard outside the temple and do not measure it, for it has been given to the Gentiles, and they will trample the holy city for 42 months.


## Revelation 11:3 (id: 966011003)

3And I will grant to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for 1,260 days, clothed in sackcloth.”


## Revelation 11:4 (id: 966011004)

4These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth.


## Revelation 11:5 (id: 966011005)

5And if anyone wishes to harm them, fire comes out from their mouth and devours their enemies, and if anyone should wish to harm them, he must be killed in this way.


## Revelation 11:6 (id: 966011006)

6They have authority to close up the sky so that no rain might fall during the days of their prophesy, and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every plague as often as they may desire.


## Revelation 11:7 (id: 966011007)

7And when they finish their testimony, the beast coming up from the abyss will make war against them, and he will conquer them and kill them.


## Revelation 11:8 (id: 966011008)

8And their corpses {will be} in the public square of the great city, which is spiritually called Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified.


## Revelation 11:9 (id: 966011009)

9And those from people and tribe and language and nation look at their corpses for three and a half days, and they do not permit their corpses to be placed in a tomb.


## Revelation 11:10 (id: 966011010)

10And the ones living on the earth rejoice over them and celebrate and send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tormented the ones living on the earth.


## Revelation 11:11 (id: 966011011)

11But after three and a half days, a breath of life from God entered into them and they stood on their feet, and great fear fell on the ones seeing them.


## Revelation 11:12 (id: 966011012)

12And they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, “Come up here!” And they went up into heaven in a cloud, and their enemies watched them.


## Revelation 11:13 (id: 966011013)

13And at that hour a great earthquake happened, and a tenth of the city fell. And in the earthquake, the names of 7,000 men were killed, and the rest became terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven.


## Revelation 11:14 (id: 966011014)

14The second woe has passed. Behold, the third woe is coming quickly.


## Revelation 11:15 (id: 966011015)

15And the seventh angel trumpeted, and loud voices happened in heaven, saying, “The kingdom of the world has become {the kingdom} of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign to the ages of the ages.”


## Revelation 11:16 (id: 966011016)

16And the 24 elders sitting on their thrones before God fell upon their faces and worshiped God,


## Revelation 11:17 (id: 966011017)

17saying, “We give thanks to you, Lord God, Ruler of All, the one being and the one having been, because indeed you have taken your great power and have reigned.


## Revelation 11:18 (id: 966011018)

18And the nations were enraged, but your wrath has come and the time for the dead to be judged, and to give a reward to your servants the prophets and to the saints and to the ones fearing your name, the small and the great, and to destroy the ones destroying the earth.”


## Revelation 11:19 (id: 966011019)

19And the temple of God in heaven was opened and the ark of the covenant of the Lord was seen in his temple. And flashes of lightning and loud sounds and crashes of thunder and an earthquake and a great hailstorm happened.


## Revelation 12:1 (id: 966012001)

1And a great sign was seen in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and a crown of 12 stars on her head,


## Revelation 12:2 (id: 966012002)

2and having in the womb, and she cries out, suffering birth pains and being tormented to give birth.


## Revelation 12:3 (id: 966012003)

3And another sign was seen in heaven: and behold, a large red dragon having seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns on his heads.


## Revelation 12:4 (id: 966012004)

4And his tail sweeps away a third of the stars of heaven and hurled them down to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman being about to give birth so that when she gave birth he might devour her child.


## Revelation 12:5 (id: 966012005)

5And she gave birth to a son, a male, who is going to rule all the nations with an iron scepter. And her child was snatched away to God and to his throne,


## Revelation 12:6 (id: 966012006)

6and the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God there so that they might nourish her there for 1,260 days.


## Revelation 12:7 (id: 966012007)

7And a war happened in heaven. Michael and his angels fought with the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought {them}.


## Revelation 12:8 (id: 966012008)

8But he was not strong enough, nor was a place found for them any longer in heaven.


## Revelation 12:9 (id: 966012009)

9And the great dragon was thrown down, the ancient serpent called Diabolos and Satan, the one deceiving the whole world. He was thrown down to the earth and his angels were thrown down with him.


## Revelation 12:10 (id: 966012010)

10And I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, “Now have come the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God, and the authority of his Christ, because the accuser of our brothers has been thrown down, the one accusing them before our God day and night.


## Revelation 12:11 (id: 966012011)

11And they conquered him through the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, indeed, they did not love their lives unto death.


## Revelation 12:12 (id: 966012012)

12Therefore, rejoice, heavens, and the ones tabernacling in them! Woe to the earth and the sea, because the devil has gone down to you, having great anger, knowing that he has little time!”


## Revelation 12:13 (id: 966012013)

13And when the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who had borne the male.


## Revelation 12:14 (id: 966012014)

14But two wings of a great eagle were given to the woman so that she might fly to the wilderness, to her place where she is nourished there for a time and times and half a time, away from the face of the serpent.


## Revelation 12:15 (id: 966012015)

15And the serpent poured water like a river out from his mouth after the woman so that he might make her stream\-borne.


## Revelation 12:16 (id: 966012016)

16But the earth helped the woman, indeed, the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon poured out from his mouth.


## Revelation 12:17 (id: 966012017)

17And the dragon was enraged at the woman and went off to make war with the rest of her seed, the ones keeping the commandments of God and having the testimony of Jesus.


## Revelation 12:18 (id: 966012018)

18And he stood on the sand of the sea.


## Revelation 13:1 (id: 966013001)

1And I saw a beast coming up from the sea, having ten horns and seven heads, and on its horns {were} ten crowns, and on its heads {was} a blasphemous name.


## Revelation 13:2 (id: 966013002)

2And the beast that I saw was like a leopard and its feet {were} as of a bear and its mouth {was} as the mouth of a lion, and the dragon gave to it his power and his throne and great authority.


## Revelation 13:3 (id: 966013003)

3And one of its heads {was} as if it had been slain unto death, but its wound of death had been healed. And the whole earth was astonished after the beast,


## Revelation 13:4 (id: 966013004)

4and they worshiped the dragon because he had given authority to the beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, “Who {is} like the beast, and who is able to war with it?”


## Revelation 13:5 (id: 966013005)

5And to it was given a mouth speaking great {things} and blasphemies, and authority was given to it to act for 42 months.


## Revelation 13:6 (id: 966013006)

6And it opened its mouth unto blasphemies against God, to blaspheme his name and his tabernacle, the ones tabernacling in heaven.


## Revelation 13:7 (id: 966013007)

7And to it was granted to make war with the saints and to conquer them, and authority was given to it over every tribe and people and language and nation.


## Revelation 13:8 (id: 966013008)

8And all the ones living on the earth will worship it, of whom his name has not been written in the Book of Life of the Lamb having been slain from the foundation of the world.


## Revelation 13:9 (id: 966013009)

9If anyone has an ear, let him hear.


## Revelation 13:10 (id: 966013010)

10If anyone {is} for captivity, he departs; if anyone will be killed by the sword, it is necessary for him to be killed by the sword. Here is the endurance and the faith of the saints.


## Revelation 13:11 (id: 966013011)

11And I saw another beast coming up from the earth, and it had two horns like a lamb but it was speaking like a dragon.


## Revelation 13:12 (id: 966013012)

12And it exercises all the authority of the first beast before it, and it makes the earth and the ones living on it that they will worship the first beast, of whom his wound of death had been healed.


## Revelation 13:13 (id: 966013013)

13And it does great signs, so that it might even cause fire to come down from heaven to the earth before men.


## Revelation 13:14 (id: 966013014)

14And it deceives the ones living on the earth through the signs that have been granted to it to do before the beast, telling the ones living on the earth to make an image to the beast that has the wound of the sword and has lived.


## Revelation 13:15 (id: 966013015)

15And it was granted to it to give breath to the image of the beast so that the image of the beast might even speak and might cause whoever does not worship the image of the beast to be killed.


## Revelation 13:16 (id: 966013016)

16And it causes everyone, the small and the great and the rich and the poor and the free and the slave, that they might give to them a mark on their right hand or on their forehead,


## Revelation 13:17 (id: 966013017)

17and that no one would be able to buy or to sell except the one having the mark, the name of the beast or the number of its name.


## Revelation 13:18 (id: 966013018)

18Here is wisdom: The one having understanding, let him calculate the number of the beast. For it is the number of a man, and its number is 666\.


## Revelation 14:1 (id: 966014001)

1And I looked and behold, the Lamb standing on Mount Zion, and with him {were} 144 thousands having his name and the name of his Father written on their foreheads.


## Revelation 14:2 (id: 966014002)

2And I heard a sound from heaven like the sound of many waters and like the sound of great thunder, and the sound that I heard {was} like harpists harping on their harps.


## Revelation 14:3 (id: 966014003)

3And they sing a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders, and no one was able to learn the song except the 144 thousands having been bought from the earth.


## Revelation 14:4 (id: 966014004)

4These are they who have not been defiled with women, for they are virgins. These are the ones following the Lamb wherever he goes. These have been bought from among men as first fruits for God and for the Lamb,


## Revelation 14:5 (id: 966014005)

5and no lie has been found in their mouth, for they are blameless.


## Revelation 14:6 (id: 966014006)

6And I saw another angel flying in midair, having the eternal gospel to proclaim to the ones living on the earth, even to every nation and tribe and language and people,


## Revelation 14:7 (id: 966014007)

7saying in a loud voice, “Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come, and worship the one having made the heaven and the earth and the sea and the springs of water.”


## Revelation 14:8 (id: 966014008)

8And another, a second, followed, saying, “Fallen, fallen has Babylon the Great, who caused all the nations to drink from the wine of the passion of her immorality!”


## Revelation 14:9 (id: 966014009)

9And another angel, a third, followed them, saying in a loud voice, “If anyone worships the beast and his image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand,


## Revelation 14:10 (id: 966014010)

10he will also drink from the wine of the wrath of God having been poured undiluted into the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulfur before the holy angels and before the Lamb.


## Revelation 14:11 (id: 966014011)

11And the smoke of their torment goes up to the ages of the ages, and they have no rest day and night, the ones worshiping the beast and his image and if anyone receives the mark of his name.


## Revelation 14:12 (id: 966014012)

12Here is the endurance of the saints, the ones keeping the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.”


## Revelation 14:13 (id: 966014013)

13And I heard a voice from heaven saying, “Write, ‘Blessed {are} the dead dying in the Lord from now on.’” “Yes,” says the Spirit, “so they will rest from their labors, for their deeds follow with them.”


## Revelation 14:14 (id: 966014014)

14And I looked and behold, a white cloud, and sitting on the cloud one like a son of man, having a golden crown on his head and a sharp sickle in his hand.


## Revelation 14:15 (id: 966014015)

15And another angel came out of the temple, crying out in a loud voice to the one sitting on the cloud: “Extend your sickle and reap, because the time to reap has come, since the harvest of the earth has been ripened.”


## Revelation 14:16 (id: 966014016)

16And the one sitting on the cloud swung his sickle upon the earth, and the earth was harvested.


## Revelation 14:17 (id: 966014017)

17And another angel came out from the temple in heaven, also having a sharp sickle himself.


## Revelation 14:18 (id: 966014018)

18And another angel {came} from the altar, the one having authority over the fire, and he shouted in a loud voice to the one having the sharp sickle, saying, “Send out your sharp sickle and gather the clusters of the grapevine of the earth, for their grapes have ripened.”


## Revelation 14:19 (id: 966014019)

19And the angel swung his sickle to the earth and harvested the grapevine of the earth, and he threw {the grapes} into the great winepress of the wrath of God.


## Revelation 14:20 (id: 966014020)

20And the winepress was trampled outside the city, and blood came out from the winepress up to the bridles of the horses for 1,600 stadia.


## Revelation 15:1 (id: 966015001)

1And I saw another great and marvelous sign in heaven: seven angels having seven final plagues, for with them the wrath of God was finished.


## Revelation 15:2 (id: 966015002)

2Then I saw as it were a sea of glass having been mixed with fire and the ones being victorious over the beast and over his image and over the number of his name standing on the sea of glass having the harps of God.


## Revelation 15:3 (id: 966015003)

3And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God and the song of the Lamb, saying, “Great and marvelous {are} your deeds, Lord God, Ruler of All. Righteous and true {are} your ways, King of the Ages.


## Revelation 15:4 (id: 966015004)

4Who will certainly not fear {you}, Lord, and glorify your name? For {you} alone {are} holy. For all the nations will come and worship before you, because your righteous deeds have been manifested.”


## Revelation 15:5 (id: 966015005)

5And after these things I looked, and the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven had been opened.


## Revelation 15:6 (id: 966015006)

6And the seven angels having the seven plagues came out from the temple, having been clothed with clean, bright linen and with golden sashes having been wrapped around {their} chests.


## Revelation 15:7 (id: 966015007)

7And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls being full of the wrath of the God living to the ages of the ages.


## Revelation 15:8 (id: 966015008)

8And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God and from his power, and no one was able to enter into the temple until the seven plagues of the seven angels were completed.


## Revelation 16:1 (id: 966016001)

1And I heard a loud voice from the temple saying to the seven angels, “Go and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God onto the earth.”


## Revelation 16:2 (id: 966016002)

2And the first went and poured out his bowl on the earth, and a bad and harmful sore happened on the men having the mark of the beast and the ones worshiping its image.


## Revelation 16:3 (id: 966016003)

3And the second poured out his bowl into the sea and it became blood as of a corpse, and every living soul in the sea died.


## Revelation 16:4 (id: 966016004)

4And the third poured out his bowl into the rivers and the springs of water, and it became blood.


## Revelation 16:5 (id: 966016005)

5And I heard the angel of the waters saying, “You are righteous, the one being and the one who was, the Holy One, because you have judged these.


## Revelation 16:6 (id: 966016006)

6Because they poured out the blood of the saints and prophets, you have also given blood to them to drink; they are worthy.”


## Revelation 16:7 (id: 966016007)

7And I heard the altar saying, “Yes, Lord God, Ruler of All, your judgments {are} true and righteous.”


## Revelation 16:8 (id: 966016008)

8And the fourth poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was granted to it to scorch men with fire.


## Revelation 16:9 (id: 966016009)

9And men were scorched a great scorch and they blasphemed the name of the God having authority over these plagues, but they did not repent to give him glory.


## Revelation 16:10 (id: 966016010)

10And the fifth poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast, and its kingdom became darkened. And they were chewing their tongues from the pain,


## Revelation 16:11 (id: 966016011)

11and they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pain and because of their sores, but they did not repent of their deeds.


## Revelation 16:12 (id: 966016012)

12And the sixth poured out his bowl upon the great river, the Euphrates, and its water was dried up so that the way of the kings from the rising of the sun might be prepared.


## Revelation 16:13 (id: 966016013)

13And I saw, out from the mouth of the dragon and out from the mouth of the beast and out from the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs,


## Revelation 16:14 (id: 966016014)

14for they are spirits of demons performing signs, who go out to the kings of the whole world to gather them together for battle on the great day of God, the Ruler of All.


## Revelation 16:15 (id: 966016015)

15(“Behold! I am coming like a thief! Blessed {is} the one watching and keeping his garments so that he might not walk around naked and they see his indecency.”)


## Revelation 16:16 (id: 966016016)

16And they brought them together at the place called Armageddon in Hebrew.


## Revelation 16:17 (id: 966016017)

17And the seventh poured out his bowl upon the air, and a loud voice came out from the temple from the throne, saying, “It has happened!”


## Revelation 16:18 (id: 966016018)

18And lightning and sounds and thunder happened, and a great earthquake happened, such as had not happened since man had been on the earth, so powerful an earthquake, so great.


## Revelation 16:19 (id: 966016019)

19And the great city came into three parts and the cities of the nations fell, and Babylon the Great was remembered before God to give to her the cup of the wine of the wrath of his anger.


## Revelation 16:20 (id: 966016020)

20And every island fled, and the mountains were not found.


## Revelation 16:21 (id: 966016021)

21And great hail, about a talent in weight, comes down from heaven upon men, and men blasphemed God because of the plague of hail, because that plague is exceedingly great.


## Revelation 17:1 (id: 966017001)

1And one of the seven angels holding the seven bowls came and spoke with me, saying, “Come, I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute sitting on many waters,


## Revelation 17:2 (id: 966017002)

2with whom the kings of the earth committed sexual immorality and the ones living {on} the earth were intoxicated from the wine of her sexual immorality.”


## Revelation 17:3 (id: 966017003)

3And he carried me away in the Spirit to a wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast being full of blasphemous names, having seven heads and ten horns.


## Revelation 17:4 (id: 966017004)

4And the woman was clothed in purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and precious stone and pearls, holding in her hand a golden cup being full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality,


## Revelation 17:5 (id: 966017005)

5and on her forehead had been written a name, a mystery: Babylon the Great, the Mother of Prostitutes and of the Abominations of the Earth.


## Revelation 17:6 (id: 966017006)

6And I saw the woman being drunk from the blood of the saints and from the blood of the witnesses of Jesus and, having seen her, I wondered a great wonder.


## Revelation 17:7 (id: 966017007)

7But the angel said to me, “Why are you wondering? I will tell to you the mystery of the woman and of the beast carrying her having the seven heads and the ten horns.


## Revelation 17:8 (id: 966017008)

8The beast that you saw was and is not but is about to come up from the abyss, and it is going to destruction, and the ones living on the earth whose names have not been written in the Book of Life from the foundation of the world will wonder, seeing the beast that was and is not but will come.


## Revelation 17:9 (id: 966017009)

9Here {is} the mind having wisdom: The seven heads are seven hills where the woman is sitting on them, and they are seven kings;


## Revelation 17:10 (id: 966017010)

10the five have fallen, the one is, the other has not yet come, and when he comes, it is necessary for him to remain a little.


## Revelation 17:11 (id: 966017011)

11And the beast that was and is not is itself also an eighth, but it is from the seven and is going to destruction.


## Revelation 17:12 (id: 966017012)

12And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom, but they are receiving authority as kings with the beast for one hour.


## Revelation 17:13 (id: 966017013)

13These have one mind, and they give their power and authority to the beast.


## Revelation 17:14 (id: 966017014)

14They will make war against the Lamb, but the Lamb will conquer them because he is Lord of lords and King of kings and the ones with him {are} called and chosen and faithful.”


## Revelation 17:15 (id: 966017015)

15And he says to me, “The waters that you saw, where the prostitute sits, are peoples and multitudes and nations and languages.


## Revelation 17:16 (id: 966017016)

16And the ten horns that you saw and the beast, they will hate the prostitute and they will make her desolated and naked and they will consume her flesh and they will burn her completely with fire,


## Revelation 17:17 (id: 966017017)

17for God has put into their hearts to do his purpose and to do one purpose and to give their kingdom to the beast until the words of God will be fulfilled.


## Revelation 17:18 (id: 966017018)

18And the woman whom you saw is the great city having a kingdom over the kings of the earth.”


## Revelation 18:1 (id: 966018001)

1After these things I saw another angel coming down from heaven, having great authority, and the earth was illuminated by his glory.


## Revelation 18:2 (id: 966018002)

2And he cried out in a mighty voice, saying, “Babylon the Great has fallen! And she has become a habitation of demons and a hold of every unclean spirit and a hold of every unclean and detested bird.


## Revelation 18:3 (id: 966018003)

3For all the nations have drunk from the wine of her immoral passion and the kings of the earth have committed sexual immorality with her and the merchants of the earth have become rich from the power of her luxury.”


## Revelation 18:4 (id: 966018004)

4And I heard another voice from heaven saying, “Come out from her, my people, so that you might not share in her sins and so that you might not receive from her plagues.


## Revelation 18:5 (id: 966018005)

5For her sins have been heaped as far as heaven, and God has remembered her offenses.


## Revelation 18:6 (id: 966018006)

6Give back to her even as she has given, and double doubles {to her} according to her deeds; in the cup that she mixed, mix double for her.


## Revelation 18:7 (id: 966018007)

7As much as she glorified herself and lived in luxury, give her just as much torture and grief. For she says in her heart, ‘I sit {as} a queen and I am not a widow and I will certainly not see mourning.’


## Revelation 18:8 (id: 966018008)

8Because of this in one day her plagues will come: death and mourning and famine, and she will be consumed by fire, for the Lord God judging her {is} mighty.”


## Revelation 18:9 (id: 966018009)

9And the kings of the earth, the ones having committed sexual immorality and having lived in luxury with her, will weep and wail over her when they see the smoke of her burning,


## Revelation 18:10 (id: 966018010)

10standing from afar because of the fear of her torment, saying, “Woe, woe, the great city, Babylon, the mighty city! For in one hour your judgment has come.”


## Revelation 18:11 (id: 966018011)

11And the merchants of the earth weep and mourn for her, because no one buys her cargo anymore—


## Revelation 18:12 (id: 966018012)

12cargo of gold and silver and precious stone and pearls and fine linen and purple cloth and silk and scarlet cloth and every citron wood and every ivory vessel and every vessel from the costliest wood and bronze and iron and marble


## Revelation 18:13 (id: 966018013)

13and cinnamon and spice and incense and myrrh and frankincense and wine and oil and fine flour and wheat and cattle and sheep and horses and chariots and bodies and souls of men.


## Revelation 18:14 (id: 966018014)

14And your autumn fruit of the desire of {your} soul has gone away from you, and all the luxurious and the splendid has perished from you, and they will certainly not be found any longer.


## Revelation 18:15 (id: 966018015)

15The merchants of these things, having become rich, will stand afar off from her because of the fear of her torment, weeping and mourning,


## Revelation 18:16 (id: 966018016)

16saying, “Woe, woe to the great city having been dressed in fine linen and purple and scarlet and adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls,


## Revelation 18:17 (id: 966018017)

17for in one hour so much wealth has been destroyed.” And every shipmaster and every one sailing to a place and sailors and as many as work the sea stood from afar


## Revelation 18:18 (id: 966018018)

18and were crying out, seeing the smoke of her burning, saying, “What {is} like the great city?”


## Revelation 18:19 (id: 966018019)

19And they threw dust on their heads and cried out, weeping and mourning, saying, “Woe, woe, the great city, by which all the ones having ships in the sea became rich from her wealth, for in one hour she has been destroyed.”


## Revelation 18:20 (id: 966018020)

20(“Rejoice over her, heaven, also you saints and apostles and prophets, for God has judged your judgment against her!”)


## Revelation 18:21 (id: 966018021)

21And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone and threw {it} into the sea, saying, “Thus Babylon, the great city, will be thrown down with violence, and she will certainly not be seen anymore,


## Revelation 18:22 (id: 966018022)

22and the sound of harpists and musicians and flutists and trumpeters will certainly not be heard in you anymore, and every craftsman will certainly not be found in you anymore, and the sound of a mill will certainly not be heard in you anymore.


## Revelation 18:23 (id: 966018023)

23And the light of a lamp will certainly not shine in you anymore, and the voice of a bridegroom and a bride will certainly not be heard in you anymore, for your merchants were the great ones of the earth because all the nations were deceived by your sorcery.


## Revelation 18:24 (id: 966018024)

24And in her was found the blood of prophets and saints and of all the ones having been slain on the earth.”


## Revelation 19:1 (id: 966019001)

1After these things I heard as it were the loud voice of a large crowd in heaven saying, “Hallelujah! Salvation and glory and power to our God,


## Revelation 19:2 (id: 966019002)

2for his judgments {are} true and righteous, for he has judged the great prostitute who was corrupting the earth with her sexual immorality, and he has avenged the blood of his servants from her hand.”


## Revelation 19:3 (id: 966019003)

3And they spoke a second {time}: “Hallelujah! Yes, the smoke of her rises to the ages of the ages.”


## Revelation 19:4 (id: 966019004)

4And the 24 elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God, the One sitting on the throne, saying, “Amen. Hallelujah!”


## Revelation 19:5 (id: 966019005)

5And a voice came out from the throne, saying, “Praise our God, all his servants and the ones fearing him, the small and the great.”


## Revelation 19:6 (id: 966019006)

6And I heard as it were the sound of a great crowd and as it were the sound of many waters and as it were the sound of powerful thunder, saying, “Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Ruler of All, reigns.


## Revelation 19:7 (id: 966019007)

7Let us rejoice and exult and give glory to him because the wedding of the Lamb has come and his bride has made herself ready


## Revelation 19:8 (id: 966019008)

8and it has been granted to her that she might be dressed in bright, clean fine linen.” (For fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints.)


## Revelation 19:9 (id: 966019009)

9And he says to me, “Write, ‘Blessed {are} the ones having been called to the supper of the wedding of the Lamb.’” And he says to me, “These are true words of God.”


## Revelation 19:10 (id: 966019010)

10And I fell before his feet to worship him, but he says to me, “See not! I am a fellow servant of you and your brothers having the testimony of Jesus. Worship God! For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.”


## Revelation 19:11 (id: 966019011)

11And I saw heaven having been opened and behold, a white horse and the one riding on it, being called Faithful and True, and he judges and makes war in righteousness,


## Revelation 19:12 (id: 966019012)

12his eyes also {being} a flame of fire, and many crowns (being} on his head, having a name written that no one knows except himself,


## Revelation 19:13 (id: 966019013)

13and having been clothed with a robe dipped in blood; and his name is called the Word of God.


## Revelation 19:14 (id: 966019014)

14And the armies in heaven were following him on white horses, having been clothed in fine linen, white and clean.


## Revelation 19:15 (id: 966019015)

15And from his mouth goes out a sharp sword so that with it he might strike the nations, and he will rule them with an iron scepter, and he tramples the winepress of the wine of the wrath of the fury of God, the Ruler of All.


## Revelation 19:16 (id: 966019016)

16And he has a name written on {his} robe and on his thigh: King of Kings and Lord of Lords.


## Revelation 19:17 (id: 966019017)

17And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried out in a loud voice, saying to all the birds flying in midheaven, “Come, be gathered together for the great supper of God,


## Revelation 19:18 (id: 966019018)

18so that you might eat the flesh of kings and the flesh of chiliarchs and the flesh of the mighty and the flesh of horses and of the ones sitting on them and the flesh of all, both of free and of slaves and of small and of great.”


## Revelation 19:19 (id: 966019019)

19And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies having been gathered to make war with the one sitting on the horse and with his army.


## Revelation 19:20 (id: 966019020)

20And the beast was captured and with him the false prophet having performed signs before him, by which he deceived the ones having received the mark of the beast and the ones worshiping his image. The two were thrown living into the lake of fire burning with sulfur.


## Revelation 19:21 (id: 966019021)

21And the rest were killed by the sword of the one sitting on the horse, coming out from his mouth, and all the birds were gorged with their flesh.


## Revelation 20:1 (id: 966020001)

1And I saw an angel coming down from heaven having the key to the abyss and a great chain in his hand.


## Revelation 20:2 (id: 966020002)

2And he seized the dragon, the ancient serpent, who is the devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years.


## Revelation 20:3 (id: 966020003)

3And he threw him into the abyss and shut it and sealed it over him so that he would not deceive the nations anymore until the thousand years were ended. After that, it is necessary for him to be released for a short time.


## Revelation 20:4 (id: 966020004)

4And I saw thrones, and they sat on them and judgment was given to them, both the souls of the ones having been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus and for the word of God and those who did not worship the beast or his image and did not receive the mark on the forehead or on their hand. And they lived and reigned with Christ for a thousand years.


## Revelation 20:5 (id: 966020005)

5(The rest of the dead did not live until the thousand years were ended.) This {is} the first resurrection.


## Revelation 20:6 (id: 966020006)

6Blessed and holy {is} the one having a part in the first resurrection! Over these the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and they will reign with him for a thousand years.


## Revelation 20:7 (id: 966020007)

7But when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released from his prison,


## Revelation 20:8 (id: 966020008)

8and he will go out to deceive the nations at the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle, of whom their number {will be} like the sand of the sea.


## Revelation 20:9 (id: 966020009)

9And they went up on the breadth of the earth and surrounded the encampment of the saints and the beloved city, but fire came down from heaven and devoured them.


## Revelation 20:10 (id: 966020010)

10And the devil deceiving them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulfur where the beast and the false prophet {were}, and they will be tormented day and night to the ages of the ages.


## Revelation 20:11 (id: 966020011)

11And I saw a great white throne and the one sitting on it, from whose face earth and heaven fled, and no place was found for them.


## Revelation 20:12 (id: 966020012)

12And I saw the dead, both the great and the small, standing before the throne, and books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the {Book} of Life. And the dead were judged from the {things} written in the books, according to their deeds.


## Revelation 20:13 (id: 966020013)

13And the sea gave up the dead in it, and Death and Hades gave up the dead in them, and they were judged, each one, according to their deeds.


## Revelation 20:14 (id: 966020014)

14And Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire.


## Revelation 20:15 (id: 966020015)

15And if anyone was not found written in the Book of Life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.


## Revelation 21:1 (id: 966021001)

1And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had gone away, and the sea was no more.


## Revelation 21:2 (id: 966021002)

2And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared like a bride adorned for her husband.


## Revelation 21:3 (id: 966021003)

3And I heard a great voice from the throne saying, “Behold! The tabernacle of God {is} with men, and he will tabernacle with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them.


## Revelation 21:4 (id: 966021004)

4And he will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death will not be any longer, nor grieving, nor crying, nor pain. They will not be any longer; the first {things} have gone away.”


## Revelation 21:5 (id: 966021005)

5And the one sitting on the throne said, “Behold! I make all {things} new.” And he says to me, “Write, for these words are trustworthy and true.”


## Revelation 21:6 (id: 966021006)

6And he said to me, “It has happened! I {am} the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the one thirsting I will give freely from the spring of the water of life.


## Revelation 21:7 (id: 966021007)

7The one conquering will inherit these {things}, and I will be his God, and he will be my son.


## Revelation 21:8 (id: 966021008)

8But for the cowardly and the unbelieving and the abhorred and murderers and fornicators and sorcerers and idolaters and all liars, their place {will be} in the lake burning with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.”


## Revelation 21:9 (id: 966021009)

9And one of the seven angels holding the seven bowls being full of the seven last plagues came and spoke with me, saying, “Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb.”


## Revelation 21:10 (id: 966021010)

10And he carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain, and he showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God,


## Revelation 21:11 (id: 966021011)

11having the glory of God, its brilliance {being} like a most precious stone, like a stone of jasper shining like crystal.


## Revelation 21:12 (id: 966021012)

12having a great and high wall having 12 gates and 12 angels at the gates and names having been written that are the 12 tribes of the sons of Israel.


## Revelation 21:13 (id: 966021013)

13On the east {were} three gates, and on the north {were} three gates, and on the south {were} three gates, and on the west {were} three gates.


## Revelation 21:14 (id: 966021014)

14And the wall of the city had 12 foundations, and on them {were} the 12 names of the 12 apostles of the Lamb.


## Revelation 21:15 (id: 966021015)

15And the one speaking with me had a golden measuring rod so that he might measure the city and her gates and her wall.


## Revelation 21:16 (id: 966021016)

16And the city is laid out square, and her length {is} as much as the width. And he measured the city with the rod to 12,000 stadia: Her length and width and height are equal.


## Revelation 21:17 (id: 966021017)

17And he measured her wall, 144 cubits by the measurement of a man, which is of an angel.


## Revelation 21:18 (id: 966021018)

18And the material of her wall {is} jasper, and the city {is} pure gold, like pure glass.


## Revelation 21:19 (id: 966021019)

19The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every precious stone. The first foundation {was} jasper, the second sapphire, the third chalcedony, the fourth emerald,


## Revelation 21:20 (id: 966021020)

20the fifth sardonyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the eleventh jacinth, the twelfth amethyst.


## Revelation 21:21 (id: 966021021)

21And the 12 gates {were} 12 pearls; each one of the gates individually was from one pearl, and the street of the city {was} pure gold, like transparent glass.


## Revelation 21:22 (id: 966021022)

22And I saw no temple in her, for the Lord God, the Ruler of All, is her temple, and the Lamb.


## Revelation 21:23 (id: 966021023)

23And the city has no need of the sun, nor of the moon, that they might illumine her, for the glory of God illumined {her}, and her lamp {is} the Lamb.


## Revelation 21:24 (id: 966021024)

24And the nations will walk by the light of her, and the kings of the earth bring their glory into her.


## Revelation 21:25 (id: 966021025)

25And her gates will certainly not be shut by day, for night will not be there.


## Revelation 21:26 (id: 966021026)

26And they will bring the glory and the honor of the nations into her,


## Revelation 21:27 (id: 966021027)

27but everything unclean will certainly not enter into her and the one doing abomination and falsehood, if not the ones having been written in the Book of Life of the Lamb.


## Revelation 22:1 (id: 966022001)

1And he showed to me the river of the water of life, clear as crystal, flowing out from the throne of God and of the Lamb,


## Revelation 22:2 (id: 966022002)

2in the middle of its public square. And on this side and on that side of the river {was} the tree of life, bearing 12 fruits, giving its fruit according to each month, and the leaves of the tree {are} for the healing of the nations.


## Revelation 22:3 (id: 966022003)

3And there will no longer be any curse, and the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will serve him.


## Revelation 22:4 (id: 966022004)

4And they will see his face, and his name {will be} on their foreheads.


## Revelation 22:5 (id: 966022005)

5And there will be no more night, and they have no need of {the} light of a lamp or of the light of the sun, because the Lord God will shine on them, and they will reign to the ages of the ages.


## Revelation 22:6 (id: 966022006)

6And he said to me, “These words {are} trustworthy and true, and the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must happen soon.”


## Revelation 22:7 (id: 966022007)

7“And behold, I am coming quickly! Blessed {is} the one keeping the words of the prophecy of this book.”


## Revelation 22:8 (id: 966022008)

8And I, John, {am} the one seeing and hearing these {things}. And when I heard and saw them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel showing me these {things}.


## Revelation 22:9 (id: 966022009)

9But he says to me, “See not! I am a fellow servant of you and of your brothers the prophets and of the ones keeping the words of this book. Worship God!”


## Revelation 22:10 (id: 966022010)

10And he says to me, “Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near.


## Revelation 22:11 (id: 966022011)

11Let the one being unrighteous still be unrighteous, and let the filthy {one} still be filthy, and let the righteous {one} still do righteousness, and let the holy {one} still be holy.”


## Revelation 22:12 (id: 966022012)

12“Behold, I am coming quickly, and my reward {is} with me, to render to each one as his work is.


## Revelation 22:13 (id: 966022013)

13I {am} the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.


## Revelation 22:14 (id: 966022014)

14Blessed {are} the ones washing their robes so that their authority over the tree of life will be and they may enter into the city by the gates.


## Revelation 22:15 (id: 966022015)

15Outside {are} dogs and sorcerers and the sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters and everyone loving and doing falsehood.


## Revelation 22:16 (id: 966022016)

16I, Jesus, have sent my angel to testify these things to you concerning the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright morning star.”


## Revelation 22:17 (id: 966022017)

17And the Spirit and the Bride say, “Come!” And let the one hearing say, “Come!” And the one thirsting, let him come. The one desiring, let him take the water of life freely.


## Revelation 22:18 (id: 966022018)

18I testify to everyone hearing the words of the prophecy of this book: If anyone might add to them, God will add to him the plagues written in this book.


## Revelation 22:19 (id: 966022019)

19And if anyone might take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his share from the tree of life and from the holy city written in this book.


## Revelation 22:20 (id: 966022020)

20The one testifying these {things} says, “Yes! I am coming quickly.” Amen! Come, Lord Jesus!


## Revelation 22:21 (id: 966022021)

21The grace of the Lord Jesus {be} with the saints. Amen.


